# BIZZYNOOK

Situated in the foothills of the Ka'zakjorn mountains, Bizzynook is a small
city-state home to the majority of gnomes in the Confederacy. An absolute
democracy, all residents are welcomed to participate in Assembly, a debate held
every Shamra where laws, legal proceedings, and even cultural judgments are
passed by the establishment of two-thirds majority rulings. It is renowned
across the world as a center of technological marvels and home to the Bizzynook
Institute of Technomancy.

Unlike the traditional stonework of its dwarven neighbors or the elegant spires
of elven settlements, Bizzynook is a fascinating blend of natural landscape and
mechanical innovation. The city rises from the foothills in a series of terraced
plateaus connected by an intricate network of gears, lifts, funiculars, and
steam-powered conveyances. Copper pipes and brass conduits weave between
buildings like metallic vines, carrying steam, water, and occasionally messages
throughout the settlement.

The air in Bizzynook carries the distinctive scent of machine oil, leather, and
hot metal, occasionally punctuated by the sweeter aromas of experimental
alchemical processes or the spicy-sweet smell of gnomish cuisine. The city never
truly sleeps, with the constant background symphony of ticking mechanisms,
hissing steam valves, turning gears, and the enthusiastic voices of gnomes
debating everything from municipal policies to theoretical arcano-mechanics long
into the night.

# THE ASSEMBLY CLOCKTOWER

The political and literal heart of Bizzynook, the Assembly Clocktower dominates
the cityscape, rising from the central plateau like an enormous brass and copper
tree. This magnificent structure serves as both the seat of government and the
master timepiece that regulates all chronometric devices throughout the city.
The Clocktower's massive central cogwheel, visible through a crystal observation
dome at its top, is said to be the first machine built in Bizzynook, its teeth
individually carved by the founding gnomish families.

The Clocktower integrates organic and mechanical elements in perfect harmony,
with living trees supporting brass gantries and massive glass observation
windows set into walls of living wood and polished stone. The building's eight
faces each display a different aspect of time – standard hours, lunar phases,
seasonal progression, and more esoteric measurements including a "schedule
predictor" that anticipates delays in the Assembly's often lengthy debates.

Inside, the Assembly Chamber occupies the widest section of the tower, a
circular forum ringed with tiered seating designed to accommodate every voting
citizen who wishes to attend. The acoustic properties of the chamber are
remarkable – a whisper from the Speaker's Podium can be heard clearly at the
furthest seat, while simultaneous conversations in the gallery remain distinct
and understandable rather than merging into cacophony.

The complex mechanisms within the tower walls are constantly maintained by a
rotating staff of engineers who consider this duty both a high honor and a
sacred responsibility. The rhythmic ticking of the Great Clock forms the
heartbeat of Bizzynook, a constant reminder of the city's technological heritage
and democratic values.

## NOTABLE LOCATIONS

- **The Assembly Chamber** - The great circular forum where all citizens gather
  on Shamra to debate and vote on legislation, judicial matters, and cultural
  decisions. The room features mechanically adjustable seating arrangements to
  accommodate discussions of different sizes and formats.

- **The Sortition Selection Engine** - An elaborate mechanical device resembling
  a combination of lottery wheel, calculating engine, and musical instrument.
  Every season, this device randomly selects citizens to serve on administrative
  committees, ensuring representation across neighborhoods, trades, and
  perspectives.

- **The Archives of Proceedings** - A vast library containing records of every
  Assembly meeting, debate, and vote since the city's founding. Maintained by a
  team of archivists led by the methodical **Fidget Cogsworth**, a middle-aged
  gnome female with a photographic memory.

- **The Moderator's Office** - Workspace of the current Assembly Moderator
  **Periwinkle Sprocketwhistle**, a respected elder gnome who ensures debates
  remain civil and procedurally correct. Unlike most positions in Bizzynook, the
  Moderator is elected to a five-year term rather than selected by sortition.

- **The Timekeeping School** - An academy where young gnomes learn the
  principles of chronometry and the maintenance of the city's many clocks.
  Master Horologist **Tinker Pendulumspring** oversees the curriculum with
  precision and enthusiasm.

- **The Visitor's Gallery** - A special section where non-citizens and diplomats
  can observe Assembly proceedings without participating. Features translation
  ear-trumpets for non-Gnomish speakers.

- **The Emergency Response Hub** - A complex network of tubes, telegraphs, and
  signal mirrors capable of rapidly communicating emergency messages throughout
  the city. Staffed at all hours by a rotating crew of alert volunteers.

# THE INNOVATION QUARTER

The most visually striking district of Bizzynook, the Innovation Quarter sprawls
across the city's upper terraces in a seemingly haphazard collection of
workshops, laboratories, testing grounds, and lecture halls. What appears
chaotic at first glance reveals itself as an organic arrangement optimized for
collaborative creativity, with related disciplines clustered together and
communal spaces positioned to maximize chance encounters between specialists
from different fields.

Buildings in this district frequently defy conventional architecture, with
structures that rotate, expand, collapse, or otherwise transform to suit
changing needs. Materials range from traditional wood and stone to experimental
composites, transparent aluminum, and devices incorporating minor enchantments.
Many rooftops serve as gardens or observation platforms, while others support
arrays of weather instruments, solar collectors, or experimental flying machine
launch pads.

The atmosphere crackles with creative energy, punctuated regularly by small
explosions, victorious eureka moments, and the groans of failed experiments. The
air carries a constantly shifting blend of odors – ozone from electrical tests,
chemical reagents, metallic tang from smithies, and occasionally the smell of
singed hair or burnt toast from an experiment gone awry. Spontaneous lectures
occur in open squares, with animated gnomes drawing diagrams in the air using
minor illusion spells or chalk on portable blackboards.

## NOTABLE LOCATIONS

- **The Bizzynook Institute of Technomancy** - The renowned educational
  institution that attracts students from across the Confederacy and beyond. The
  Institute's main campus occupies a series of interconnected buildings with
  reconfigurable internal spaces. Current Headmaster **Gimble Wobblecog**, a
  renowned artificer and philosopher, oversees the curriculum with a blend of
  academic rigor and encouragement of creative risk-taking.

- **The Prototype Testing Field** - A reinforced open area surrounded by
  observation bunkers where new inventions can be safely demonstrated. Regular
  public viewings draw crowds of enthusiastic spectators protected behind
  specially designed safety screens.

- **The Patent Office** - Where inventors register their creations and can apply
  for funding to develop promising concepts. Chief Registrar **Nyx Brassbubble**
  manages a complex filing system and a team of evaluators who assess the
  practicality, originality, and potential benefit of each submission.

- **The Failed Experiments Museum** - Rather than hiding their mistakes,
  Bizzynook's inventors celebrate them as learning opportunities in this unique
  museum. Curator **Wrench Fizzlebang** enthusiastically explains how each
  spectacular failure contributed to eventual successes.

- **The Collaborative Workshop Commons** - A massive open workshop filled with
  shared tools, materials, and equipment available to any citizen with an idea
  to develop. Workshop Manager **Sprocket Gearspark** somehow maintains order in
  the cheerful chaos.

- **The Alchemical Sciences Building** - A well-ventilated complex dedicated to
  chemical experimentation, featuring extensive safety measures including
  automatic sprinkler systems and emergency potion neutralizers. Master
  Alchemist **Flask Bubblewick** supervises with a charred but unbowed
  enthusiasm.

- **The Arcane Engineering Center** - Where magical theory meets mechanical
  application in sometimes unpredictable ways. Director **Trixie Wandweaver**
  encourages students to explore the boundaries between the magical and the
  mechanical.

- **The Bizzynook Observer** - The city's newspaper office, where **Editor
  Scribble Inkfinger** and her team document innovations, Assembly decisions,
  and community events with equal parts journalistic integrity and excited
  speculation.

# THE RESIDENTIAL WARRENS

Unlike the geometric precision of dwarven homes or the spacious elegance of
human settlements, Bizzynook's residential districts reflect the gnomish love of
complexity, personalization, and interconnection. The Residential Warrens occupy
several terraced hillsides, forming a three-dimensional maze of dwellings that
merge seamlessly with the natural landscape.

Gnomish homes typically begin small but expand over generations as families add
rooms, workshops, and specialty spaces according to their interests and needs.
This organic growth creates neighborhoods of interconnected dwellings where
boundaries between individual homes sometimes blur. Many residences incorporate
living trees as structural elements, with rooms nestled among branches or carved
partially into hillsides.

The architecture emphasizes both privacy and community, with private family
spaces balanced by numerous communal areas. Most homes feature elaborate front
doors with unique mechanisms, personalized knockers, and often some form of
automated greeting system. Windows come in whimsical shapes, and weather vanes,
wind chimes, and small automated displays adorn many rooftops. At night, the
warrens twinkle with hundreds of different lighting systems, from simple
lanterns to elaborate illumination networks that change color based on the time
or weather.

The sounds of family life permeate the warrens – children playing elaborate
games with mechanical toys, parents tinkering with household improvements, and
the omnipresent background of small clockwork mechanisms marking the passage of
time in countless unique ways. Delicious aromas waft from community kitchens
where multiple families often gather to share meals and stories, fostering the
tight social bonds that underpin Bizzynook's democratic culture.

## NOTABLE LOCATIONS

- **The Neighborhood Nexuses** - Each residential cluster features a central
  communal space equipped with meeting areas, shared resources, and a smaller
  version of the Sortition Selection Engine for local decision-making. These
  nexuses serve as social hubs and information exchange points.

- **The Apprentice Dormitories** - Housing for students attending the Institute
  who come from outside Bizzynook. The buildings feature adaptable rooms that
  accommodate diverse species and living preferences.

- **The Elders' Terrace** - A collection of homes and gardens where many of
  Bizzynook's older citizens live, sharing wisdom and often serving as informal
  mentors to younger gnomes. Despite the name, residence is based on choice
  rather than requirement, with many elders preferring to remain in family
  homes.

- **The Family Archives** - A community repository where family histories,
  inventions, and traditions are preserved. Archivist **Quill Remembersharp**
  helps citizens trace their lineages and document their contributions to
  Bizzynook's development.

- **The Children's Inventorium** - A supervised space where young gnomes can
  safely experiment with basic tools and materials, nurturing their creative
  instincts under the watchful eye of Education Coordinator **Fidget
  Quickfingers**.

- **The Culinary Innovation Kitchen** - Where new recipes and food preparation
  techniques are developed and tested. Head Chef **Pepper Tastywhistle**
  encourages bold experimentation in cuisine as enthusiastically as others
  pursue mechanical invention.

- **The Community Gardens** - Terraced agricultural spaces where residents grow
  food, medicinal herbs, and experimental plant varieties. Garden Coordinator
  **Blossom Greenthumble** organizes planting schedules and harvest festivals.

- **The Messaging Hub** - Central station for Bizzynook's pneumatic tube
  communication system, where messages can be sent to any connected location in
  the city. Messaging Director **Whizzer Tuberunner** oversees the complex
  network of pipes and pressure systems.

# THE MERCANTILE MECHANISMS

Bizzynook's commercial district embodies the gnomish approach to trade –
efficient yet whimsical, practical yet innovative. The Mercantile Mechanisms
occupies a broad plateau near the city's main entrance, welcoming visitors with
a dazzling display of gnomish craftsmanship and commercial energy.

Unlike traditional marketplaces, shops here rarely remain stationary. Many
businesses operate from mechanized carts that travel along designated
gear-tracks embedded in the streets, repositioning throughout the day according
to customer traffic patterns. Larger establishments occupy fixed locations but
feature rotating display windows, expandable showrooms, or modular interiors
that transform to showcase different merchandise.

The district's infrastructure includes an elaborate automated delivery system of
pneumatic tubes, miniature railways, and pulley networks that can transport
packages throughout the city. Payment systems are equally innovative, with some
shops using mechanical calculating engines for transactions and others employing
token systems or credit ledgers maintained by precision clockwork.

The atmosphere buzzes with commerce and conversation. Vendors enthusiastically
demonstrate their wares, often improvising improvements or customizations on the
spot in response to customer inquiries. The air carries the scents of metal
polish, leather, paper, and exotic materials imported from across the
Confederacy, along with tantalizing aromas from food stalls serving gnomish
delicacies and experimental fusion cuisines.

## NOTABLE LOCATIONS

- **The Gadgeterium** - A sprawling marketplace filled with stalls selling
  inventions of all types, from practical household tools to outlandish novelty
  items. Market Manager **Widget Salesspring** ensures fair trading practices
  and moderates the enthusiastic haggling.

- **The Clockwork Emporium** - Specialty shop selling timepieces ranging from
  pocket watches to elaborate astronomical clocks. Proprietor **Cogsworth
  Geartickle** is known for being able to repair any chronometric device ever
  created.

- **Sparks & Sprockets** - General supply store for inventors, stocking metals,
  tools, components, and raw materials. Owner **Bolt Fastenloose** has an
  uncanny memory for where everything is located in the seemingly chaotic
  inventory.

- **The Automated Auction House** - Where rare components, unusual materials,
  and prototype inventions change hands via a complex bidding system operated by
  mechanical auctioneer automata. Auction Coordinator **Biddy Highprice**
  ensures the mechanisms run smoothly and all transactions are properly
  recorded.

- **Inkblot & Parchment** - Stationery shop specializing in technical drawing
  supplies, notebooks with special features (waterproof, fireproof,
  self-indexing), and experimental inks. Proprietor **Quill Blottingworth**
  tests every product personally.

- **The Tinkerer's Tavern** - Popular establishment where inventors gather to
  share ideas over specialized brews. Barkeeper **Fizz Bubblebrew** serves
  drinks with mechanical presentation elements that are as impressive as their
  flavors.

- **The Component Exchange** - A cooperative where inventors can trade parts,
  components, and materials. Operating on a complex point system rather than
  direct currency, it's overseen by Exchange Coordinator **Sprocket Fairshare**.

- **The Visitor's Orientation Center** - First stop for newcomers to Bizzynook,
  providing maps, guides, and essential information about navigating the city's
  unique infrastructure. Staffed by volunteer **Greeter Welcomewhisper** and a
  team of enthusiastic city ambassadors.

# THE ENGINEERING UNDERCITY

Beneath Bizzynook's visible streets and structures lies a marvel of gnomish
engineering – the extensive network of tunnels, chambers, and mechanisms that
power the city's many technological wonders. The Engineering Undercity is not
truly underground but rather occupies the spaces between the natural terraces of
the hillside, utilizing the elevation changes to manage water flow, steam
pressure, and mechanical energy distribution.

Access to this technical realm is via numerous maintenance hatches, service
elevators, and dedicated stairwells found throughout Bizzynook. Unlike the
decorative surfaces above, the Undercity prioritizes function over form, though
the gnomish inability to resist embellishment means even purely utilitarian
mechanisms often feature decorative elements or clever design flourishes.

The main arteries of the Undercity are broad tunnels tall enough for gnomes to
walk comfortably, lined with pipes, cables, and ducts carrying water, steam, and
mechanical power. These primary corridors branch into increasingly specialized
subsystems handling everything from waste management to communication networks.
Maintenance platforms and observation stations at key junctions allow engineers
to monitor and adjust systems as needed.

The atmosphere is warm and humid from the many steam conduits, with the air
carrying the distinctive scents of machine oil, hot metal, and the peculiar
ozone-like smell of certain gnomish power generation methods. The soundscape is
equally distinctive – the constant background of flowing water, hissing steam,
and whirring gears creates a mechanical symphony that experienced engineers can
"read" to assess the city's operational health.

## NOTABLE LOCATIONS

- **The Grand Boiler Room** - Heart of Bizzynook's steam power network, where
  massive furnaces heat water drawn from underground springs. Chief Engineer
  **Piston Steamwhistle** and her team maintain precise pressure levels
  throughout the system.

- **The Central Gear Exchange** - An enormous chamber filled with interlocking
  gears of various sizes that distribute mechanical power throughout the city.
  Gear Master **Cog Teethgrinder** can adjust the system to redirect power where
  needed.

- **The Hydraulic Control Station** - Where Bizzynook's water supply is managed,
  from drinking water to the pressure systems that power various mechanical
  elevators and devices. Hydraulics Director **Flow Watershaper** ensures
  consistent pressure and quality.

- **The Pneumatic Messaging Center** - The hub of the city's tube-based
  communication system, where messages in small capsules are routed to their
  destinations through a complex network of compressed air tubes. Message Master
  **Zip Tubesorter** keeps communications flowing smoothly.

- **The Emergency Response Center** - A fully equipped facility where engineers
  stand ready to address system failures, mechanical breakdowns, or other
  technical emergencies. Response Coordinator **Swift Fixitquick** leads a team
  capable of handling any crisis.

- **The Engineering Academy** - Where apprentice engineers learn the practical
  skills needed to maintain Bizzynook's infrastructure. Academy Director
  **Teachwell Learnquick** balances theoretical knowledge with hands-on
  training.

- **The Experimental Energy Laboratory** - Where new power sources and
  efficiency improvements are researched under carefully controlled conditions.
  Research Director **Spark Newpowerfinder** leads pioneering work in
  sustainable energy systems.

- **The System Mapping Room** - Contains comprehensive three-dimensional models
  of all Bizzynook's engineering systems, updated regularly to reflect
  modifications and expansions. Chief Cartographer **Detail Accuratemap**
  ensures every component is correctly represented.
