# TEVENDAR FOREST

A vast wilderness that covers a large section of the central Confederacy, the
Tevandar Forest is an ancient woodland, said to have been home to the Greenman
himself in the days before the Deracination. It is protected by the Circle of
Tevendar, an association of druids, rangers, and other inhabitants of the forest
who vow to keep the land green and unspoilt by industry and man's destructive
nature. There are many tribes and villages located within its woods, though
precise locations and populations are hard to gauge, as the Circle mostly keeps
to itself and rarely interacts with the Confederate Assembly unless necessary.

Unlike the cultivated gardens of Lepia or the volcanic terraces of Pa'rakhan,
Tevendar Forest represents primordial nature largely untouched by civilization,
a living reminder of what much of the Scar looked like before the rise of the
Confederate states. From its borders, the forest presents an imposing wall of
ancient trees whose upper canopies seem to touch the very clouds. Within, the
wilderness unfolds in countless microenvironments—dense old-growth stands,
sun-dappled clearings, misty fens, rushing streams, and tranquil pools—each with
its own distinctive ecosystem.

The air within Tevendar carries the rich, loamy scent of healthy soil, the green
freshness of constantly renewing plant life, and the subtle aromas of countless
flowers, fungi, and herbs. These base notes shift with the seasons—the fresh
bloom of spring, the green vibrancy of summer, the earthy decay of autumn, and
the crystalline stillness of winter—creating an olfactory calendar understood
intimately by those who call the forest home. The soundscape is equally
diverse—birdsong forms a constant chorus that changes with time of day and
season, complemented by rustling leaves, creaking branches, babbling streams,
and occasionally the calls of more mysterious forest denizens.

Unlike the ordered settlements of the Confederacy, life in Tevendar follows
patterns established over millennia, guided by natural rhythms rather than
imposed structure. The Circle of Tevendar serves as guardian rather than ruler,
maintaining balance and protecting the forest from outside threats while
allowing its internal dynamics to follow their ancient courses. To outsiders,
the forest may seem chaotic or dangerous, but those who know its ways understand
that Tevendar operates according to its own perfect logic—older and in many ways
wiser than the laws and customs of more "civilized" lands.

# THE ANCIENT HEART

At the geographic center of Tevendar Forest lies its oldest section, where trees
dating back thousands of years create a cathedral-like environment of soaring
trunks and interwoven canopies so dense that even at midday, the forest floor
remains in perpetual twilight. Known as the Ancient Heart, this region is
considered sacred by the Circle of Tevendar and by many races who recognize the
primordial power concentrated in these venerable woods. Here, the boundary
between the material world and the realm of Faerie grows thin, allowing passage
between realms for those who know the proper pathways.

The Ancient Heart is defined not by artificial boundaries but by the presence of
the Elder Trees—massive specimens of oak, ash, rowan, and other species that
have stood since before recorded history. These trees are not merely old but
invested with consciousness and memory, capable of slow communication with those
who have learned their language. Their roots delve deep into the earth,
connecting with a vast mycelial network that some druids believe extends
throughout the entire forest, creating a system of awareness and communication
imperceptible to most outsiders.

The atmosphere in the Ancient Heart differs noticeably from the rest of the
forest. The air feels thicker, more charged with vital energy, and carries
scents that seem to change according to the observer—sometimes reminiscent of
spring blooms even in deepest winter, or bearing the earthy richness of autumn
even during summer's height. Sounds are both muffled and somehow enhanced, with
distant calls carrying clearly while nearby movements seem oddly muted. Many
visitors report experiencing time differently within the Ancient Heart, with
hours passing like minutes or a brief rest extending into days.

Few permanent structures exist in this region, as those who understand the
Ancient Heart's significance know better than to impose the artificial upon the
primal. Instead, living spaces are incorporated into existing natural
features—hollows within massive trees, sheltered spaces beneath root systems, or
carefully cultivated growing structures where branches have been gently trained
over generations to create living dwellings. These subtle habitations can be
nearly impossible for outsiders to identify, making the Ancient Heart appear
uninhabited despite being the spiritual center of forest society.

## NOTABLE LOCATIONS

- **The Elder Circle** - A perfect ring of thirteen ancient oak trees, each over
  two hundred feet tall, surrounding a small clearing considered the most sacred
  site in all Tevendar. The Circle serves as meeting place for the highest
  councils of druids and as the location for their most important rituals. The
  trees themselves are sentient, able to communicate through the senior druids,
  and are said to remember the days before the Deracination. Guardian of the
  Circle **Oakroot Greenfather**, an ancient elf druid whose skin has developed
  bark-like patterns after centuries of communion with the Elder Trees, rarely
  leaves this sacred site.

- **The Rootpool** - A perfectly circular pond fed by underwater springs,
  surrounded by the exposed roots of ancient trees that dip into its waters. The
  pool's surface reflects not just the immediate surroundings but seemingly
  random visions of other places and times within the forest. Those who drink
  from it report dreams of profound clarity and occasional prophetic
  significance. Keeper of the Waters **Ripple Clearfinder**, a water genasi
  druid who can communicate directly with the pool's elemental spirit, guides
  those seeking wisdom through proper ritual observances.

- **The Fae Crossroads** - A nexus where multiple barely visible paths converge,
  marking a thin point between the material world and Faerie. Visible primarily
  during twilight or to those with fae ancestry, these paths occasionally allow
  passage between realms—though such journeys are unpredictable and potentially
  dangerous to the unprepared. Crossroads Warden **Whisperwind Starlight**, a
  half-elf whose fae ancestry is evident in her slightly pointed features and
  eyes that shift color with her mood, monitors traffic between worlds and
  enforces the ancient pacts that govern such transitions.

- **The Memory Glade** - A small clearing where a peculiar acoustic phenomenon
  allows visitors to hear echoes of past events that transpired within the
  Ancient Heart. The sounds manifest randomly, with no apparent
  pattern—sometimes revealing mundane moments from recent history, other times
  reproducing significant events from centuries past. Glade Tender **Echo
  Pastwhisper**, an elderly human ranger who has devoted decades to recording
  and interpreting these audiomantic revelations, maintains the delicate
  conditions that enable the phenomenon.

- **The Greenman's Hollow** - A massive, partially hollow tree with internal
  spaces large enough to serve as meeting halls, said to be the dwelling place
  of the Greenman himself before the Deracination. Now used only for the most
  significant ceremonial occasions, the hollow contains a spring that produces
  water with remarkable healing properties. Hollow Keeper **Verdant
  Leafspeaker**, a firbolg druid who claims distant kinship with the Greenman,
  maintains the site and determines who may access its healing waters.

- **The Heartwood Grove** - Where the most magically potent trees in Tevendar
  are carefully harvested according to ancient protocols that ensure their
  spiritual essence returns to the forest. Wood taken from this grove is used
  only for items of deep significance—ritual implements, instruments for bards
  who serve the Circle, and occasionally diplomatic gifts of extraordinary
  value. Grove Tender **Timberheart Woodsinger**, a taciturn human druid whose
  singing voice can influence the growth patterns of trees, oversees the sacred
  harvesting rituals.

- **The Dream Hollow** - A natural depression in the forest floor filled with
  peculiar phosphorescent fungi that release spores with mild psychotropic
  properties. Under careful supervision from Circle guides, those who breathe
  these spores may experience visions that provide insight into personal
  dilemmas or occasionally reveal threats to the forest's wellbeing. Mushroom
  Keeper **Sporespread Visionguide**, a gnome druid with multicolored patches of
  fungi growing symbiotically on her skin, monitors those undergoing the
  visionary experience.

# THE WILD REACHES

Surrounding the Ancient Heart and comprising the largest portion of Tevendar
Forest are the Wild Reaches—vast expanses of woodland less mystically charged
than the forest's center but still teeming with diverse life and natural wonder.
This region serves as both buffer zone protecting the Ancient Heart and as the
primary living space for the forest's permanent inhabitants, who have developed
communities adapted to life among the trees without diminishing the wilderness
that sustains them.

Unlike the twilit environment of the Ancient Heart, the Wild Reaches feature
greater diversity of landscape and light conditions—dense woodland alternates
with natural clearings, streams widen into rivers, underground springs emerge as
pools, and occasional rises in the terrain create hillside environments with
different plant communities. The canopy varies in height and density, allowing
for multiple layers of plant life and creating diverse habitats for the
countless species that call Tevendar home.

The atmosphere changes noticeably as one travels through the Wild Reaches, with
each area possessing its own character. Some groves feel welcoming and peaceful,
while others evoke a sense of watchful wariness or even subtle hostility toward
intruders. These emotional responses aren't merely subjective—they reflect the
actual disposition of each area's guardian spirits and resident creatures,
responding to the forest's collective memory of how visitors have behaved in the
past. Areas that have experienced respectful interaction feel open to newcomers,
while places that have suffered damage or disrespect demonstrate increased
wariness.

Human and humanoid habitation in the Wild Reaches follows patterns established
over millennia, with communities intentionally limiting their impact on the
surrounding ecosystem. Dwellings are constructed with minimal disruption to
living trees, often incorporating natural features and living plants into their
design. Materials are harvested according to sustainable practices overseen by
the Circle of Tevendar, ensuring that the forest remains a perpetually renewing
resource rather than a diminishing one.

## NOTABLE LOCATIONS

- **Whisperleaf Village** - One of the largest elven settlements in Tevendar, a
  community of elegant structures built among and within a grove of massive
  silverleaf trees. The village architecture incorporates living branches and
  roots, with dwellings that continue to grow and change over time. Village
  Elder **Sylindra Gentlewind**, an elf whose family has guided the community
  for twenty generations, maintains relations with other forest settlements and
  occasionally represents Whisperleaf in dealings with the Circle.

- **The Ranger's Lodge** - Headquarters for the Wardens of Tevendar, the ranger
  branch of the Circle responsible for patrolling the Wild Reaches and
  monitoring both natural threats and outside incursions. The wooden structure
  is built around the base of three massive oak trees, with observation
  platforms extending up into the canopy. Master Ranger **Thornshield
  Pathfinder**, a half-elf whose knowledge of the forest is unmatched even among
  longtime residents, coordinates patrols and training for new rangers.

- **The Beastlands** - A region where particularly intelligent animal species
  have established a complex society under the protection of the Circle. These
  animals—including bears, wolves, foxes, ravens, and others—have developed
  sophisticated means of communication and governance, living in a state that
  bridges the gap between natural and civilized existence. Beastfriend
  **Growlspeaker Wildkin**, a human druid who has sacrificed the ability to
  speak humanoid languages in exchange for universal communication with animals,
  serves as liaison between the Beastlands and the wider forest community.

- **The Singing Falls** - A multi-level waterfall where the peculiar
  configuration of rocks and water flow creates a constant musical sound
  reminiscent of choral voices. The site serves as both a meeting place for
  bards who serve the Circle and as a natural amphitheater where important news
  is shared through song with any who gather to listen. Falls Guardian **Melody
  Riverheart**, a half-elf bard whose voice can perfectly harmonize with the
  natural music of the falls, organizes seasonal gatherings that keep distant
  communities connected.

- **The Treehome Clan Hall** - Primary settlement of the forest's halfling
  population, consisting of an extensive network of connected dwellings built
  among the branches of a massive oak grove. Rope bridges, wooden platforms, and
  ingeniously designed pulley systems allow residents to travel throughout the
  community without ever touching the ground. Clan Elder **Nettlewise
  Thornberry**, a halfling matriarch whose family has lived in the trees for
  over twenty generations, maintains the settlement's traditions while adapting
  to the forest's changing needs.

- **The Healer's Glade** - Where the Circle's most skilled herbalists and
  healing specialists gather, cultivate medicinal plants, and treat serious
  injuries or illnesses that exceed the capabilities of individual settlement
  healers. The clearing features carefully tended garden beds growing hundreds
  of medicinal species, surrounding a spring-fed pool with reputed healing
  properties. Chief Healer **Remedyhand Painsoother**, a human woman whose
  knowledge of plant medicine is supplemented by limited divine healing
  abilities, coordinates treatment and training.

- **The Trading Grove** - A designated meeting place where forest dwellers can
  exchange goods with each other and with approved outside traders without
  allowing commercial activity to penetrate deeper into Tevendar. The site
  operates according to strict rules enforced by Circle representatives, with
  emphasis on fair exchange and sustainable harvesting of forest products. Grove
  Master **Fairdealer Truthspeak**, a dwarf who left his mountain home decades
  ago after falling in love with the forest, ensures trading practices honor
  both market fairness and forest preservation.

# THE GREEN BORDER

Marking the transition between Tevendar Forest and the surrounding Confederate
lands, the Green Border is neither a clear line nor a fixed boundary, but rather
a transitional zone where the deep wilderness gradually gives way to more
managed landscapes. This region serves multiple functions—buffer protecting the
forest interior, controlled interface for interaction with outside communities,
first line of defense against threats, and educational zone where outsiders can
learn to appreciate and respect the forest without penetrating to its more
sensitive depths.

Unlike the ancient, largely untouched woodlands of the interior, the Green
Border shows more evidence of management and occasional compromise with outside
needs. Here, the Circle of Tevendar practices selective timber harvesting in
some areas, maintains designated hunting grounds where game can be taken
according to sustainable quotas, and allows limited gathering of forest products
by approved individuals from neighboring communities. These activities are
carefully monitored to ensure they remain in balance with the forest's
regenerative capacity.

The atmosphere in the Green Border reflects its transitional nature, with the
deep stillness and primordial energy of the forest interior gradually
diminishing as one moves outward. The air carries more scents of human
activity—woodsmoke, cultivated crops from nearby farms, occasional traces of
metal and leather from hunters and travelers. The soundscape similarly blends
natural and humanoid elements, with birdsong and rustling leaves interspersed
with distant voices, the ring of woodcutting axes, and the creaking of cart
wheels on established paths.

Human presence in the Green Border is more visible than in deeper parts of the
forest, with occasional permanent settlements, ranger outposts, trading posts,
and sanctioned logging camps. These establishments operate under agreements with
the Circle of Tevendar, which sets strict limits on their size, activities, and
impact on the surrounding woodland. Most inhabitants are either members of the
Circle themselves or have developed a deep respect for forest traditions through
generations of living in close proximity to Tevendar.

## NOTABLE LOCATIONS

- **Greenwatch Tower** - A tall wooden structure built around a living tree,
  serving as both observation post and headquarters for rangers patrolling the
  eastern boundary of Tevendar. The multilevel tower provides commanding views
  of both forest and adjacent Confederate lands, allowing early detection of
  threats approaching from either direction. Tower Captain **Vigilance
  Farseeker**, a human ranger whose family has served the Circle for seven
  generations, coordinates border patrols and maintains communication with
  nearby Confederate settlements.

- **Edgewood Village** - One of the largest permanent settlements in the Green
  Border, home to a diverse population including humans, elves, halflings, and
  others who serve as intermediaries between forest and Confederate interests.
  The village architecture blends traditional woodland construction with
  elements of Confederate style, creating a visual bridge between cultures.
  Mayor **Harmony Bridgemaker**, a half-elf with extensive diplomatic
  experience, negotiates agreements governing resource use and access rights
  with neighboring Confederate communities.

- **The Forester's Guild Hall** - Center for training and coordination of
  approved logging operations within the Green Border. The impressive wooden
  structure, built entirely from fallen timber without the cutting of a single
  living tree, houses classrooms, meeting spaces, and demonstrations of
  sustainable harvesting techniques. Guildmaster **Carver Deadwoodonly**, a
  dwarf who revolutionized selective logging practices to minimize forest
  impact, enforces harvesting quotas and oversees replanting efforts.

- **The Pilgrim's Rest** - An establishment serving travelers to the forest who
  seek spiritual connections with nature rather than material resources. The
  complex includes simple accommodations, ritual spaces, and gardens of native
  plants used in Circle ceremonies. Pilgrims undergo orientation in forest
  protocols before being guided to appropriate sites for prayer, meditation, or
  other devotional activities. Hospitality Master **Welcomeheart Gentleguide**,
  a tiefling whose calm demeanor belies her fierce dedication to protecting the
  forest through education, ensures visitors understand and respect Tevendar's
  sacred nature.

- **The River Post** - A trading station where forest products can be legally
  exchanged for outside goods according to agreements between the Circle and
  Confederate authorities. Located on a navigable river that provides
  transportation to nearby Confederate towns, the post features warehouses,
  docking facilities, and quarters for official inspectors from both forest and
  Confederate jurisdictions. Post Master **Fairexchange Honestscale**, a
  dragonborn known for inflexible integrity, ensures all transactions comply
  with sustainability requirements.

- **The Boundary Stones** - A series of ancient monoliths marking significant
  points along the forest border, allegedly established by the Greenman himself
  before the Deracination. Each stone bears carvings in a script no longer fully
  understood, though Circle elders can interpret portions describing the
  original covenant between the forest and surrounding lands. Stone Keeper
  **Ancientword Pastremember**, an elderly gnome who has devoted his life to
  studying the monoliths, conducts ceremonies renewing the boundary agreements
  during seasonal transitions.

- **The Hunter's Lodge** - Headquarters for the officially sanctioned hunting
  guild that operates within the Green Border according to strict quotas and
  regulations established by the Circle. The rustic structure serves as training
  center, equipment storage, game processing facility, and social gathering
  place for hunters who have demonstrated their commitment to forest
  preservation alongside resource utilization. Lodge Master **Quickarrow
  Cleanshot**, a taciturn human whose hunting skills are matched only by her
  knowledge of wildlife population management, ensures all hunting activities
  remain sustainable.

# THE HIDDEN ENCLAVES

Scattered throughout Tevendar Forest, often in locations deliberately difficult
to find, lie the Hidden Enclaves—specialized communities and sacred sites known
only to the Circle of Tevendar and their most trusted allies. These secretive
places serve various purposes—from repositories of ancient knowledge to
sanctuaries for rare species, from training grounds for the Circle's most
powerful members to meeting places for communication with non-human forest
entities too dangerous or alien for casual interaction.

Unlike the Ancient Heart, which remains fixed at the forest's center, or the
Wild Reaches, which make up its bulk, the Hidden Enclaves exist as isolated
pockets distributed according to patterns meaningful only to Circle initiates.
Some occupy natural features with unique properties—caves with unusual mineral
compositions, groves where ley lines intersect, springs containing water with
special qualities. Others have been deliberately established in unremarkable
locations specifically to avoid drawing attention from those who might be drawn
to obvious power centers.

The atmosphere in these enclaves varies dramatically depending on their purpose,
but all share a palpable sense of separation from the ordinary world. Visitors
often report subtle shifts in perception upon entering an enclave—colors seem
more vivid, sounds carry emotional overtones, and time may flow at a different
pace than in surrounding areas. These effects stem partly from natural magical
properties and partly from enchantments maintained by Circle members to both
protect and conceal these special places.

Access to the Hidden Enclaves is strictly controlled, with many known only to
specific subgroups within the Circle on a need-to-know basis. Pathways leading
to these locations are rarely marked in obvious ways, instead being indicated by
subtle signs meaningful only to those specifically instructed in their
recognition. Some enclaves are further protected by misdirection enchantments,
guardian creatures, or illusions that make them appear as unremarkable forest to
those without the knowledge to perceive their true nature.

## NOTABLE LOCATIONS

- **The Arcane Grove** - Where druids and other Circle members with aptitude for
  more traditional arcane magic study how to blend their nature-based abilities
  with other magical traditions. The clearing contains a permanent portal to a
  demiplane where magical experiments can be conducted without risk to the
  surrounding forest. Grove Master **Spellweaver Naturemage**, an elf who has
  mastered both druidic and wizardly traditions, guides students in responsible
  magical development that honors rather than exploits natural forces.

- **The Beast Speech Sanctuary** - A secluded valley where particularly
  intelligent animal species undergo rituals enhancing their cognitive abilities
  and communication skills, some eventually developing the power of speech. The
  sanctuary serves as both school and diplomatic center for relationships
  between humanoid and animal inhabitants of Tevendar. Sanctuary Director
  **Animalfriend Beasttalker**, a gnome druid who can simultaneously maintain
  mental communication with dozens of different creatures, oversees the delicate
  process of elevating animal consciousness without disrupting natural
  instincts.

- **The Seedvault** - An underground complex where samples of every plant
  species native to Tevendar are preserved, including some believed extinct in
  the wild. The carefully maintained chambers feature magically regulated
  environments simulating different forest conditions, allowing preservation of
  even the most delicate specimens. Vault Keeper **Greenthumb Growfoster**, a
  human druid with the ability to sense a plant's needs through touch, maintains
  the collection and leads expeditions to recover samples of rare species.

- **The Elemental Nexus** - Where representatives of the Circle communicate with
  elemental entities that inhabit or influence the forest—water spirits of the
  rivers and lakes, earth elementals dwelling deep beneath the root systems, air
  sylphs that ride the winds through the canopy, and the rare fire spirits that
  paradoxically protect the woodland from destructive blazes by controlling
  smaller, regenerative burns. Nexus Coordinator **Fourvoice Elementfriend**, a
  genasi with unusual mixed elemental heritage, maintains the intricate
  diplomatic balance between sometimes conflicting elemental interests.

- **The Memory Trees** - A grove of specially cultivated trees that can store
  memories and experiences shared by Circle members, creating a living archive
  of forest history independent of written records. Through carefully guided
  meditation while in physical contact with these trees, authorized individuals
  can access the accumulated knowledge of generations of forest guardians. Grove
  Tender **Pastkeeper Truthmemory**, an ancient treant who volunteered for
  partial domestication to serve as the primary repository, determines which
  memories are significant enough for permanent preservation.

- **The Feral Court** - Meeting place for negotiations between the Circle and
  the more dangerous or unpredictable entities dwelling within
  Tevendar—including intelligent monstrous species, fey with alien morality, and
  occasionally entities that defy conventional categorization. The neutral
  ground is protected by ancient pacts and powerful wards ensuring that all
  parties must observe diplomatic protocols while present. Court Marshal
  **Fearless Peacekeeper**, a firbolg with extraordinary diplomatic skills and
  considerable personal power, maintains order during potentially volatile
  interactions.

- **The Star Clearing** - A perfectly circular meadow where the forest canopy
  opens to provide an unobstructed view of the night sky, used by Circle
  astronomers who track celestial movements and their effects on forest cycles.
  Ancient standing stones around the perimeter are carved with star charts
  dating back to before the Deracination, allowing comparison of current
  observations with historical records. Sky Watcher **Celestial Starmapper**, an
  elderly elf whose eyes have gradually changed to reflect the night sky's
  patterns, leads seasonal ceremonies timed to significant astronomical events.

# THE SACRED GROVES

Distributed throughout Tevendar Forest according to patterns aligned with
natural energy flows, the Sacred Groves serve as focal points for the Circle's
ceremonial and spiritual activities. Each grove is dedicated to particular
aspects of natural cycles, seasonal transitions, or specific manifestations of
primordial power. Together, they form a network that helps maintain the forest's
magical balance and connection to divine forces, particularly those associated
with the Greenman and other nature deities.

Unlike the purely natural formations of most forest areas, the Sacred Groves
show evidence of generations of careful tending by Circle members—not to impose
artificial order but to enhance and channel the inherent spiritual properties of
each location. Trees may be subtly guided in their growth patterns to create
natural cathedrals, stone formations arranged to amplify energy flows, or water
features modified to produce sounds with ritual significance. These enhancements
work with rather than against natural processes, often becoming
indistinguishable from spontaneous formations over centuries of integration with
the surrounding ecosystem.

The atmosphere in these groves is noticeably charged with spiritual energy, with
the specific character varying according to each grove's dedication. Some evoke
feelings of peaceful contemplation, others stimulate joyful celebration or
solemn reverence. The air often carries unusual scents—not just the natural
aromas of plants and earth but subtler notes that seem to bypass ordinary senses
and trigger emotional or intuitive responses. Visitors with magical sensitivity
report seeing auras or energy patterns invisible to others, particularly during
ceremonial activities.

Access to the Sacred Groves is carefully regulated according to Circle
traditions, with some open to all forest dwellers for general worship, others
reserved for specific occasions or particular groups, and a few accessible only
to senior Circle members with special responsibilities. The most powerful and
sensitive sites may be further protected by guardian entities—nature spirits,
fey creatures, or occasionally more formidable beings who have formed pacts with
the Circle to safeguard places of exceptional significance.

## NOTABLE LOCATIONS

- **The Grove of Renewal** - Dedicated to cycles of death and rebirth in nature,
  this grove serves as both funeral site for Circle members and celebration
  ground for new initiates. The circular clearing features a central pool where
  bodies are ceremonially returned to the elements through a process that
  accelerates natural decomposition while capturing the spiritual essence of the
  deceased for incorporation into memorial trees planted by their loved ones.
  Grove Keeper **Lifedeath Cyclewalker**, a half-elf druid whose appearance
  seems to shift subtly between youth and age depending on the observer,
  oversees transition rituals at both ends of life's journey.

- **The Solstice Circle** - Where the most significant seasonal ceremonies are
  conducted, particularly those marking the turning points of summer and winter.
  The perfectly aligned stone ring captures solar energy during solstices,
  creating visible manifestations of power harnessed by Circle ritualists to
  maintain proper seasonal progression throughout the forest. High Druid
  **Seasonturner Sunfollower**, an elderly human whose skin changes color with
  the seasons—from spring green to summer bronze to autumn gold to winter
  pale—leads the major calendar ceremonies that structure forest life.

- **The Moon Pool** - A sacred water feature whose levels fluctuate with lunar
  cycles, used for rituals connected to night, dreams, intuition, and the
  feminine divine. During full moons, the pool's surface becomes reflective
  enough to serve as a natural scrying device, revealing visions of events
  occurring elsewhere in the forest or occasionally in connected realms. Pool
  Guardian **Silverglow Nightwatcher**, a female drow who rejected her people's
  underground ways to serve the Circle, leads midnight ceremonies and interprets
  the pool's sometimes cryptic visions.

- **The Storm Spire** - A natural rock formation frequently struck by lightning,
  where rituals connecting to weather patterns, cleansing destruction, and
  renewal through disruption are performed. Circle weather-workers gather here
  during major storms to both draw power from and subtly influence atmospheric
  conditions, protecting vulnerable forest areas while allowing beneficial
  effects of natural weather cycles. Spire Keeper **Thundervoice Stormrider**, a
  blue dragonborn with innate connections to lightning and rain, coordinates
  weather-working and maintains the ancient lightning rods that prevent damage
  to the spire itself.

- **The Communion Oak** - An impossibly ancient tree serving as physical anchor
  for the forest's most significant spiritual entity—a manifestation sometimes
  identified as an aspect of the Greenman or as the collected consciousness of
  the forest itself. Through carefully prepared rituals, senior Circle members
  can communicate directly with this entity, seeking guidance on major decisions
  affecting Tevendar's future. Oak Tender **Deeproot Soulwhisper**, a human
  druid who has sacrificed normal human lifespan by binding her life force to
  the tree, interprets the sometimes alien perspectives of the entity for other
  Circle members.

- **The Healing Springs** - Where naturally occurring mineral waters with
  curative properties are further enhanced by generations of druidic blessing
  and ritual. The terraced pools offer remedies for different ailments depending
  on temperature, mineral content, and exposure to sunlight or moonlight. Circle
  healers bring patients with particularly difficult conditions here for
  treatment unavailable elsewhere. Springs Keeper **Cureheart Painender**, a
  water genasi whose touch can diagnose illness instantly, matches patients to
  the appropriate pools and performs enhancement rituals tailored to specific
  healing needs.

- **The Wild Dance** - A grove dedicated to the untamed, primal aspects of
  nature and the raw vitality that drives life's persistence against all
  challenges. Here, some of the Circle's most ecstatic rituals take
  place—celebrations of fertility, transformative rites of passage, and
  ceremonies channeling the chaotic creative energy that balances the more
  ordered aspects of natural cycles. Grove Leader **Wildspirit Joyrunner**, a
  satyr who joined the Circle after proving his genuine devotion to forest
  preservation despite his fey nature, guides participants through rituals that
  safely channel primal energies without losing control of their potentially
  dangerous power.
