# A Short Introduction To Geography

*Written with focus on the History, Lands and Politics of the Confederacy, but
also with reference to the other Cultures and Places of Qor’thos.*

*By Alathea Damrion, M.A. Kathrula, First Reader at St. Bamber’s, Temple of
Orthalius, Waverest*

*Published by Kathrula University Press, 9970AD*

## Qor’thos

### Ancient Times

The lands we call Qor’thos (old Mamrielyon which roughly translates as ‘placenta
remnants’) were formed by the Avar out of the primordial æther, leftover from
their birth by the Great Mother. When exactly this happened is difficult to
determine. The War of the Gods and their subsequent Deracination fundamentally
altered the geological makeup of the world, making surveys, both mundane and
magickal, unreliable. Based on theological evidence we can estimate that the
world is at least 400,000 years old, though it is probably much older.

Before the Deracination, the continents were not lain out as they are today. One
can deduce from looking at any map of Qor’thos that the landmasses comprising it
were once joined together. The peoples that populated this supercontinent were
united and also set against each other by direct contact with the divine, and
little is known about the cultures and kingdoms they created, save for the old
elven empire of Mamrielyon, which has left but a few traces.

The great diversity of humanoids across the Scar and its relation to the other
continents, suggests that it was the centre of this supercontinent. It is
probable that some time before the Deracination some races emigrated into the
centre, possibly due to divine influence. We know, for example, that the elves
originated in Mamrielos, that there have been Dwarves on Skün for untold
generations and that the Gnomes trace their roots back Bay-Tsao, whereas the
communities of these races found on the Scar are relatively young.

In the final throes of the War of the Gods, the lands were sundered, splitting
into the shapes we now recognise, indeed the Scar bears its name as a homage to
this event. When Ohm appeared he severed the link between the Avar and the prime
material plane, setting Qor’thos in its place, free from direct divine
interference, as we know it now.

### Today

The exact layout of the world is known thanks to the Great Cartographic
Expedition undertaken by Kathrula University in association with Vünderax, the
dragon ruler of Pa’rakhan in 9386AD. Aided by the flight of Vünderax, scholars
upon his back were able to see and record accurately the shape of Qor’thos. The
distribution of races across the world and its natural history is still largely
mysterious, due to the secretive nature of nations like Bay-Tsao, the ill-omens
that surround Junderoth and many other factors.

Qor’thos is capped to the north and the south poles with icy tundra, stretching
out for miles until it melts away into ocean in the southern hemisphere and
joins up with the continent of Bay-Tsao in the north. Little is known of these
gelid expanses, as Bay-Tsao does not share anything about the end of its
borders. Indeed, they deny that there is even an end to them, and claim
sovereignty over the north pole, though there is little to suggest that they
have colonised any of it. Some of the the southern polar cap has been explored
and mapped by some brave Regician and Skünish sailors, but for the most part
they report it is inhospitable. It would be safe to assume the same for the
north.

There are many small islands scattered across Qor’thos, but the major land
masses are: Bay-Tsao, Junderoth, Käs, Mamrielos, Regicia, Skün and the Scar. The
western peninsula of the last of these comprises the Allied Dominions of the
Confederacy, which I believe most of the readers of this monograph will call
home. As this should be the most familiar corner of Qor’thos, let us turn to it
first.

## The Confederacy

### Foundation

The lands we know as the Confederacy were once a collection of disparate
cultures and kingdoms, some warring amongst themselves, others living in
secluded communities, or playing multiple sides of a war to their own profit.
This state of affairs carried on until 6704AD, when an evil emerged that posed a
calamitous threat to all the nations of the Scar: Zilrikax, an Illithid of the
Underdark who had achieved lichdom, arose from the deeps to spread terror and
death across the world.

His armies of demons and the undead swept throughout the lands of the Scar,
starting with the Chondothi Plains. In 6712AD Zilrikax decimated the land,
leaving what were once verdant grasslands as twisted desert. This forced out the
Halflings who had traditionally roamed the plains southwest. The orcish and
goblinoid races that had also claimed the plains were ensorcelled by Zilrikax’s
magick, adding to the already extensive selection of ammunition and fodder at
his disposal.

Meanwhile, a group calling themselves the Children of the Scar rallied the
leaders of the various nations to unite as one to defeat Zilrikax. They met at
Griselden, the ancestral home of their leader, the warrior Drelpan. As
Griselden's lands border what was once the Chondothi Plains, they were the first
to witness the exodus of the Halflings. The horrific tales they told of
Zilrikax’s destruction was enough to convince them of his evil intent and so the
Accord of the Allied Dominions was signed, forming what we know today as the
Confederacy.

### War & Victory

From the outset, the Confederacy was formed to fight Zilrikax, and so all
members of it were required to contribute men and women to create a combined
Confederate army. They fought across what were once the Chondothi Plains, now
known as the Wastes, experiencing small victories only to be undermined by
staggering defeats. During this time the Dagmari Empire allied itself with the
Confederacy, though offering only men and aid while refusing to give up its
sovereignty by joining the fledgling Confederacy.

In 6766AD, Zilrikax was cornered at Silver Tears Falls in the northlands between
Kathrula and Griselden. Through a ritual performed by Astratis, a priest of
Lorothai who served the Children of the Scar, the Illithid was banished
forevermore from Qor’thos, being set adrift in the nether regions of the Far
Realm. With this, and the suppression of Zilrikax’s remaining forces, peace was
finally secured.

### Politics

With victory obtained, the Accord of the Allied Dominions was no longer
necessary, and yet the political structure of the Confederacy clung to the land.
Historians of a romantic bent tell that the bonds created between the peoples of
the various nations during the war with Zilrikax proved too deep to undo. More
cynical scholars, however, point out that the socio-economic benefits of
confederation were too great to simply shred up the Accord. Whatever the cause,
the Confederacy became a nation formed of conglomeration, officially recognised
as joining the world stage in 6781AD with the declaration of Griselden as the
Confederate capital.

### Statutes

The Confederacy is just that: a collection of states, cities, kingdoms and other
such political structures combined to create a greater whole. Each member is
fairly autonomous, allowed to govern itself as it sees fit, provided they adhere
to the Confederate Statutes. These are a collection of laws to which the Allied
Domains have agreed to follow. They are numerous, though, chief amongst them
being:

- Free passage of all Confederate citizens around the Allied Dominions
- Tolerance of all cultures and practices of the peoples of the Confederacy and
  beyond, except in the worship of the Avar of Darkness (excluding, of course,
  Shæroom).
- The requirement of every town and city to provide a Confederate Outpost
  stationed with Confederate Guard, to defend the people and provide law and
  order.
- Recognition of the Confederate Statute of Personhood, which grants rights of
  citizenship and protection under the law to all sentient creatures not created
  by Avar of Darkness. There are many caveats to this particular statute: e.g.,
  orcs can be considered persons despite Gruumsh (the deity that created them)
  having sided with the Darkness, as it has been demonstrated that orcs and half
  orcs raised outside of their tribes have free will.

### Major Settlements

The entries below offer a brief outline of the major settlements and states of
the Confederacy. There are many more places in our land that cannot be mentioned
due to the confines of space, therefore only the largest contributors to the
commerce, culture, and politics of the Confederacy have been included.

#### Bizzynook

Situated in the foothills of the Ka’zakjorn mountains, Bizzynook is a small city
state home to the majority of gnomes in the Confederacy. An absolute democracy,
all residents are welcomed to participate in Assembly, a debate held every
Shamra where laws, legal proceedings and even cultural judgements are passed by
the establishment of two-thirds majority rulings. It is renowned across the
world as a centre of technological marvels and home to the Bizzynook Institute
of Technomancy.

#### Chak’thron

A kingdom of dwarfs situated in the Chak’daros hills to the north of the
Confederacy, Though smaller and younger than Ka’zakjorn to the west, the dwarves
of Chakthron are a proud people and make up for their kingdom’s small stature
through their offerings to the world. The most notable is it being home to the
headquarters of Gochsbarg & Rungehyr, the largest law firm in the Confederacy
who have offices in every major city.

#### Griselden

The most northerly settlement of the Confederacy looking out onto the Chondothi
wastes, Griselden is a sprawling castle-come-city that was once the ancestral
seat of the Griselden dynasty. Family records show that it started as a small
castle, and over the centuries was added to so much that it became a fortified
city. It is now most notable as the Confederate capital. Delegates from every
major settlement can be found here making the decisions that govern our land.

#### Kathrula

East of the Chak’daros hills lies one of the few remaining relics of the
pre-deracination Mamrielyon Empire, Kathrula. The city is built around the
ancient university, which is regarded as one of the leading centres of research,
both arcane and mundane, in all of Qor’thos. Though the ‘gowns’ are a mixture of
all races, the majority of the ‘towns’ are elves, most of whom can trace their
ancestry back to old Mamrielos. The city is the only Magocracy in the
Confederacy, being ruled by the Arch-Chancellor of the University.

#### Ka’zakjorn

Taking its name from the mountain range under which it is found, Ka’zakjorn is
the largest settlement of dwarves in the Confederacy. The ruling Torheim dynasty
traces its roots back to before the Deracination, though as is the case with
most history of that time the details of their early days is little known and
much debated. The kingdom is a powerhouse of mineral extraction and manufacture,
sometimes referred to as ‘The crucible of the Confederacy’.

#### Lepia

Situated on the western coast Lepia is a major port, though it is mostly known
as the holiest city of the Confederacy, the Cathedral of Light found in its old
town being the centre of the Confederate Church. All faiths are worshipped in
the city limits, even those dedicated to some of the more agreeable Avar of
Darkness and the godless Path of the Abandoned. The city and its environs is a
Theocracy, with the head of each faith having some say in governance, though
ultimately ruled by the Most Holy of the Cathedral of Light.

#### Mŷrock

The Queendom of Mŷrock covers the largest area of the Confederacy,
administrating the majority of the southern tip of the Scar. As a matriarchal
monarchy, the lords and ladies of the noble houses that rule over the Queendom’s
baronies and estates all swear allegiance to Her Majesty, whose ancestral seat
is in the titular capital on the banks of the river Tevan south of the the
Tevendar Forrest. Why the crown is always passed to the eldest daughter, rather
than the eldest son as in most of the world’s monarchies, is a mystery lost to
the ages. Regardless, Mŷrockers are fiercely loyal to Her Majesty and treasure
their traditions.

#### Pa’rakhan

Dominated by the volcano Wharanitoto at its heart, the island of Pa’rakhan south
of Waverest is the most unique landscape of the Confederacy. Magma pools and
volcanic springs adorn the island, and bring it warmth despite its southerly
latitude. Pa’rakhan is home to most of the dragonborn of the Confederacy, and is
ruled by the Vünderax, the ancient silver dragon, who settled his kind there
some time after the Deracination. The main city of the isle, with which it
shares its name, is built around the base of Wharanitoto, and is the envy of
Bizzynook and Ka’zakjorn for its ingenious use of volcanic activity to generate
power for its citizens.

#### Tevendar Forrest

A vast wilderness that covers a large section of the central Confederacy, the
Tevandar forest is an ancient woodland, said to have been home to the Greenman
himself in the days before the Deracination. It is protected by the Circle of
Tevendar, an association of druids, rangers, and other inhabitants of the forest
who vow to keep the land green and unspoilt by industry and man’s destructive
nature. There are many tribes and villages located within its woods, though
precise locations and populations are hard to gauge, as the circle mostly keeps
to itself and rarely interacts with the Confederate Assembly unless necessary.

#### Waverest

Founded over five centuries ago by Regician sailors who wished to be free of
their Kingdom’s oppressive nature, Waverest is a large city on the southwest tip
of the Scar. One of the largest cities of the Confederacy it is often called
‘the Three Towns’ due to the nature of its layout. Wharfton, the oldest party of
the city, is built into the rock face and is a network of wharfs, docks and
semi-permanently harboured ships. Rockton came next, built into the cliffs which
enclose Waverest by a clan cast out of Ka’zakjorn. The newest borough of the
city, Talton, was formed at the top of the cliff by Chondothi refugees during
the war with Zilrikax. The great elevator that hugs the cliff-face is an
archano-steam contraption that allows residents access to the town above and
below.

## The Rest of the World

Qor’thos is bigger than just the Confederacy, though the limits of space and
interest inhibit me from writing in greater detail about those lands that lie
outside our borders. There are many small island nations, dominions and kingdoms
on this sphere too numerous to mention, so the last segment of this monograph
will consider the largest players on the world stage, though sadly at a glance
only.

### Bay-Tsao

Bay-Tsao is the largest landmass of Qor’thos, dominating the majority of the
northern hemisphere. From the Vünderax survey we know it is covered with
deserts, tundra, forests, huge mountain ranges and sprawling cities, though
there is little firsthand knowledge of its terrain. The Jade Throne presides
over its dominion in secrecy and is not in the habit of welcoming foreigners.
The whole continent is ruled by the God-Emperor, who legend says ascended to
god-hood by slaying the Dævar Lords that seized control of the continent in the
centuries after the Deracination. Former citizens of the Empire claim it is a
rigid society based upon ancestor worship and dark magick, though naturally the
few Bay-Tsaon diplomats who grace our shores discredit such reports as
insurrectionist propaganda.

### Dagmar

Across the Chondothi wastes lie the desert realms of the Dagmari Empire, home to
bejeweled cities, sparkling oases and a mercantile culture which has seen the
Empire establish trade-routes all across the globe, even into Bay-Tsao. The
capital Salesh is a city of wonders, adorned in gold and gems that reflect the
equatorial sun, and is the location of the D’jambarosha, a site revered to
followers of the Light as the place where fell the blood of Solevius. It is
second only to the Cathedral of Light in Lepia as a place of holy pilgrimage.

### Junderoth

Mystery and vast rainforests cover this large island west of the Scar. Few
explorers return from it, though those who do bring back incredible
pre-deracination artifacts and potent herbs, and tell of an alien, humid land
filled with toxic plants and dangerous beasts. Despite this (or maybe because of
it) many powers in Qor’thos wish to push into the interior and take advantage of
the continent’s resources. The empires of Dagmar and Bay-Tsao have colonial
outposts there, so too does the Confederacy in the guise of Port Walen on the
continent’s east coast, built and maintained predominately by prisoners of the
Confederacy who elected transportation over other punishments.

### Käs

Sweeping savannas and grand mountain ranges typify the topography of Käs, the
third largest continent of Qor’thos, found far to the east of the Scar. There
are many nations, tribes and kingdoms across its land, but they are all unified
by subscribing to the Path of the Abandoned, a dystheistic spiritual movement
founded after and in response to the Deracination that teaches independence from
the divine, personal fulfillment and reverence for the natural world. The
largest Käsi settlement is the central city of Mbanusa, and (contended by Lepia)
is thought to be the oldest human settlement in all of Qor’thos. There are
structures formed from the foothills of the Umkanwa mountains older than then
Mamrielyon Empire littered across the city, and it is host to the Grand
Siblinghall, a sort of high temple for the Path of the Abandoned.

### Mamrielos

Mamrielos was home to an ancient elven empire that before the War of the Gods
ruled most of Qor’thos, and was subsequently devastated by the conflict. Lying
south of Käs, what was once thought to be a vast continent is now an assembly of
islands. Most are inhospitable, still bearing the divine scars inflicted upon
them many centuries ago. Those few isles that are capable of supporting life are
populated almost entirely by elves, chief amongst these being Bæn Mamriel, a
nation built upon the premise of trying to recapture the heights of the
Mamrielyon Empire.

### The Regician Isles

A dense archipelago just east of the Confederacy, the Regician Isles are a
network of small holdings, baronies and duchies that all swear fealty to
Regicia, its central island, and its King. A land of castles and knights-errant,
the Isles are a place where duty, social standing and tradition are paramount,
some would say to the point of stifling individuality. Many Regicians have
sought refuge in the Confederacy escaping a rigid feudal hierarchy that severely
punishes non-conformists. That being said, the isles have produced some of the
finest mages in Qor’thos history, and those who have traveled the archipelago
agree it is endowed with natural beauty and charming, if somewhat stiff, people.

### Skün

West of the scar and the most southerly landmass before reaching the pole, Skün
is a frosty and mountainous continent home to the largest concentration of
dwarves in Qor’thos. Dwarves and the few non-dwarves there mostly live well
below ground where geological activity makes for a more hospitable habitat than
the surface, though some small settlements can be found braving the snowy
expanse. The most prominent city, Åknorg, is a subterranean port on the western
side of the island accessible by the river Åk that flows into the depths. Lit by
glowing fungi and brimming with the smells of ale and furnace fire, it is the
ancestral home and origin of dwarves. The Skünish are irrepressible explorers,
and claim to have travelled most of the south pole, though on what is there they
are usually quiet.

## The Confederate Calendar

The Confederate Calendar was created shortly after its foundation out of
necessity: the various states and monarchies that formed it used different
systems of timekeeping. The calendar that Kathrulan scholars created was a
compromise based mostly on the Lepian system of months and the Mŷrocki system of
days.

There are five days in a turn, 6 turns in a month, and 12 months and a turn in a
year. The last turn is imaginatively called ‘Last Turn’, and is celebrated as a
five day festival of thanksgiving for the year passed and welcoming the year
ahead.

| Days in the Turn |
| ---------------- |
| Hadra            |
| Thadra           |
| Draynra          |
| Lamra            |
| Shamra           |

| Months of the Year |
| ------------------ |
| Lorothmak          |
| Pareeshmak         |
| Hermak             |
| Færunmak           |
| Rælmak             |
| Niuthmak           |
| Talmak             |
| Grenmak            |
| Crassmak           |
| Solevmak           |
| Saleenmak          |
| Ohmak              |
