# A SHORT INTRODUCTION TO HISTORY

_Being an Account of the Major Events that have Shaped Qor'thos from Ancient
Times to the Present Day, with Particular Attention to the Rise of the
Confederacy and the Relations Between Nations._

_By Thaddeus Grimstone, Ph.D. History, Kathrula University, Royal Historian to
the Confederate Council_

_Published by Kathrula University Press, 9976AD_

## THE PRIMORDIAL AGE

### The Birth of Qor'thos

The earliest history of our world is shrouded in theological mystery rather than
historical certainty. The most widely accepted creation account, supported by
both religious texts and fragments of pre-Deracination artifacts, tells that the
Great Mother entered this corner of the multiverse, heavy with child. When her
waters broke, they flowed as the primordial æther, eventually coalescing into
the elemental planes that form the foundation of our reality. Her offspring were
the Avar and the Dævar, divine and semi-divine beings that would shape the world
as we know it.

While exact chronology remains impossible to determine with scientific
certainty, theological evidence and arcane dating methods suggest this
primordial period began at least 400,000 years before the Deracination. During
this vast expanse of time, the Avar shaped the æther into the material plane of
Qor'thos, creating landmasses, seas, and the first forms of life. They pulled
creatures and beings from other planes, established the laws of nature, and even
created some beings of their own design.

The world that emerged from this divine crafting was dramatically different from
what we know today. Most scholars agree that the continents were originally
joined in a vast supercontinent, with the region now known as the Scar
positioned at its heart. The distribution of similar species across now-distant
lands supports this theory, as does geological evidence revealed through
divination magicks specifically designed to penetrate the disruptive effects of
the Deracination on conventional survey methods.

### The First Civilizations

Long before recorded history, the Avar populated Qor'thos with the ancestors of
today's sentient races. Archaeological evidence suggests that elves were among
the first to develop advanced civilization, establishing the Mamrielyon Empire
approximately 15,000 years before the Deracination. This vast realm centered on
what is now the shattered continent of Mamrielos, but extended its influence
across much of the primordial supercontinent.

Dwarven civilization emerged in what would become Skün, with evidence of
sophisticated stonework dating back at least 12,000 years before the
Deracination. Unlike the expansionist elves, early dwarven societies focused on
vertical development—delving deeper into mountains and developing increasingly
complex subterranean networks rather than spreading horizontally across the
landscape.

Human settlements appeared later, with the oldest confirmed sites located in
what is now Käs, dating to approximately 10,000 years before the Deracination.
Early human cultures demonstrated remarkable adaptability, developing diverse
societies suited to the various environments they inhabited, from the deserts of
what would become Dagmar to the temperate regions that would eventually form the
Scar and the Regician archipelago.

Other races established their own civilizations during this period—gnomish
communities appeared in regions that would later become Bay-Tsao, halfling
nomadic societies developed across the great plains, and various monstrous races
established territories throughout the primordial world. These early
civilizations initially developed in relative isolation, but as they expanded
and technologies improved, contact between different peoples became increasingly
common.

The Avar walked openly among mortals during this age, directly guiding the
development of their chosen peoples. Different divine beings favored different
races and regions, leading to the establishment of distinct cultural and
religious traditions that would eventually evolve into the complex theological
landscape we know today. This divine guidance accelerated technological and
magical development, allowing civilizations to achieve heights of sophistication
that would not be matched until thousands of years after the Deracination.

## THE AGE OF STRIFE

### Divine Discord

Approximately 2,000 years before the Deracination, the relatively peaceful
coexistence between the Avar began to fracture. While theological texts offer
various explanations for this growing conflict—from philosophical disagreements
about the proper development of mortal civilizations to personal rivalries
between divine beings—the historical record clearly shows that these tensions
ultimately erupted into devastating warfare.

The earliest conflicts appear to have been limited proxy battles, with the Avar
encouraging their mortal followers to compete for resources, territory, and
influence. The Mamrielyon Empire, closely allied with several Avar of Light,
became the primary battlefield in this initial phase of divine conflict. Elven
historical records from this period describe increasing factional tensions
within their society, as different communities aligned themselves with competing
divine patrons.

Archaeological evidence reveals a pattern of escalating conflict, with defensive
fortifications and weapon caches appearing throughout previously peaceful
settlements. Magical research shifted dramatically toward martial applications,
with artifacts from this period showing a clear focus on destructive
capabilities rather than the constructive and artistic enchantments that had
previously dominated elven magical traditions.

As divine disagreements intensified, certain Avar began to be identified
specifically with darkness or light, creating the theological divisions that
continue to shape religious practices today. Carbok, Ishtak, Bahexyma, and
others embraced increasingly destructive approaches, while Lorothai, Niuthün,
Orthalius, and their allies positioned themselves as defenders of creation
against growing chaos.

### The Divine War

In 1462BD, the simmering conflict erupted into open warfare when Carbok slew
Solevius—an act previously thought impossible, as the Avar were believed
immortal. This shocking event, which scattered divine blood across several
regions of Qor'thos, transformed limited skirmishes into an all-out war that
would eventually threaten the very existence of the world.

The War of the Gods raged across all planes of existence, but its effects were
most devastating on the material plane of Qor'thos, where mortal civilizations
became both pawns and casualties in the divine conflict. Great armies arose,
with mortals fighting alongside supernatural beings in battles that reshaped
landscapes and destroyed entire civilizations. Magical energies unleashed during
major confrontations created lasting distortions in reality that persist as
hazardous regions even today.

In 739BD, the war reached a terrible crescendo when the Avar of Darkness
released an entity known only as The Screaming One into Mamrielos. The exact
nature of this being remains disputed—some theological sources identify it as
the first of the Dævar, while others suggest it was something even more ancient
and terrible. Whatever its true nature, the consequences were catastrophic: the
once-mighty continent of Mamrielos shattered into thousands of fragments,
destroying the heart of the elven empire and creating the archipelago that bears
its name today.

The devastation of Mamrielos marked a turning point in the conflict, as the
sheer destructive potential of divine warfare became impossible to ignore. Over
the following centuries, the battles grew increasingly apocalyptic, with reality
itself beginning to fray under the strain of cosmic forces unleashed without
restraint. By the final years before the Deracination, vast regions had become
uninhabitable wastelands, entire species had been extinguished, and the
fundamental metaphysical structures supporting existence showed signs of
imminent collapse.

### The Deracination

As the divine war reached its climax in approximately 0BD, with the world
teetering on the brink of complete destruction, an entity known as Ohm appeared
simultaneously on all planes of existence. The exact nature and origin of this
being remain one of theology's greatest mysteries—some traditions identify Ohm
as an aspect of the Great Mother returned to save her creation, others as a
previously unknown entity of equal or greater power than the Avar, and still
others as the collective manifestation of mortal prayer given form through
desperate need.

Whatever its true nature, Ohm's intervention forever changed the relationship
between mortals and the divine. Speaking in what witnesses described as "the
groaning of the universe itself," Ohm pronounced judgment on the warring gods
and enacted what scholars now call the Deracination—the forcible separation of
the Avar and certain powerful Dævar from the material plane. Each divine being
was confined to its own pocket dimension, able to observe but no longer directly
interact with the world they had nearly destroyed.

The Deracination had profound physical effects beyond the removal of divine
beings. The primordial supercontinent, already stressed by the destructive
forces of divine warfare, fully separated into the landmasses we know today.
Mountains rose where plains had once stretched, seas filled newly formed basins,
and climate patterns shifted dramatically as the world's geography reorganized
itself. The region now known as the Scar, which had seen some of the most
intense fighting, bears particularly visible evidence of this traumatic
reformation.

For mortal civilizations, the aftermath of the Deracination brought both
challenges and opportunities. The sudden absence of divine guidance left many
societies in disarray, particularly those that had become dependent on direct
intervention from their patron deities. Religious institutions initially
fragmented as they struggled to interpret this apparent abandonment, leading to
the rise of various competing theological frameworks attempting to explain the
new reality—from the atheistic rejection of divine relevance to the development
of more abstract forms of worship focused on distant, silent gods.

## THE SILENT CENTURIES

### Isolation and Adaptation

The first millennium after the Deracination was a period of profound adjustment
as mortal civilizations learned to survive without divine guidance or
intervention. With the supercontinent now fractured into separate landmasses,
many previously connected cultures found themselves isolated, forced to develop
independently based on the resources and knowledge available in their new
geographical contexts.

On the Scar, the remnants of various civilizations that had been caught in the
crossfire of divine warfare gradually reorganized into small, localized
communities focused primarily on immediate survival. The magical knowledge that
had once been commonplace began to fade, preserved only by dedicated
practitioners who established the first independent arcane traditions not
directly tied to divine patronage. This period saw the foundation of several
institutions that would later evolve into important centers of learning,
including the predecessor of what would eventually become Kathrula University.

Across the newly formed continents, different races and cultures adapted in
distinctive ways. The dwarves of Skün retreated deeper into their mountain
strongholds, developing sophisticated underground civilizations that emphasized
self-reliance and communal solidarity. The scattered elven populations,
traumatized by the destruction of their homeland, established new settlements in
various regions, particularly on the remaining fragments of Mamrielos and in the
forests of the Scar.

Human societies demonstrated perhaps the greatest diversity of adaptive
strategies, ranging from the nomadic traditions that emerged on the plains of
Käs to the hierarchical feudal structures that began to take shape in what would
become the Regician Isles. In the desert regions that would later form Dagmar,
early human communities developed sophisticated water management systems that
would eventually support the rise of a great civilization.

This period also saw the emergence of the first fully independent non-human
civilizations, as races previously relegated to subordinate roles under
divine-sponsored empires established their own cultures and territories. Gnomish
settlements appeared throughout what would become the Confederacy, halfling
nomadic societies developed distinctive cultural traditions, and various other
peoples claimed spaces in the redrawn map of Qor'thos.

### The Path of the Abandoned

One of the most significant developments of the Silent Centuries was the
emergence of the Path of the Abandoned—a philosophical and spiritual movement
that emerged on the continent of Käs around 96AD. Unlike the traditional
religious structures that attempted to maintain connections with now-absent
deities, the Path embraced the reality of divine departure, advocating
self-reliance, community interdependence, and direct engagement with the natural
world rather than appeals to supernatural forces.

The movement gained particular strength among the diverse peoples of the Käsi
savannas, where the practical challenges of survival in sometimes harsh
environments reinforced the value of cooperation and adaptation over abstract
theological concerns. The construction of the Grand Siblinghall in 878AD marked
the Path's transition from loosely organized philosophical approach to formal
spiritual tradition with established practices, texts, and organizational
structures.

The Path of the Abandoned spread beyond Käs through trade contacts and
deliberate missionary efforts, finding receptive audiences particularly among
communities that had suffered most severely during the divine war or had
received minimal attention from patron deities. While never displacing
traditional religious structures in most regions, the Path introduced important
concepts that influenced theological development throughout Qor'thos,
encouraging more metaphorical interpretations of divine involvement and greater
emphasis on mortal agency.

In regions where traditional religious institutions maintained stronger
influence, the Path often faced active opposition, with particular hostility in
areas closely aligned with the Church of Light. The Dagmari Empire explicitly
outlawed Path practices, while the emerging societies of the Regician Isles
integrated anti-Path principles into their developing legal codes. Within the
fragmented communities of the Scar, responses varied dramatically by region,
creating a patchwork of acceptance and rejection that would later complicate the
Confederacy's approach to religious pluralism.

### The Age of Avatars

The religious landscape of Qor'thos changed dramatically in 1209AD when Lumeros,
an entity claiming to be an avatar of the Avar Lorothai, manifested in the city
of Lepia. This appearance—followed by similar manifestations representing other
Avar of Light—challenged the growing perception that the gods had abandoned the
world entirely, suggesting instead that they had found alternative means of
limited interaction with the material plane despite the constraints imposed by
the Deracination.

According to theological sources, the Avar had spent centuries adapting to their
imprisonment, gradually discovering that while they could not personally return
to Qor'thos, they could create or empower representatives to act on their
behalf. These avatars served multiple functions: communicating divine will,
performing miracles that reinforced faith, establishing more formal religious
hierarchies, and countering the growing influence of the Path of the Abandoned.

The Church of Light emerged as the primary institutional expression of this
renewed divine connection, unifying previously separate temples dedicated to
individual Avar into a coordinated religious structure. Unlike pre-Deracination
practice, where each deity maintained its own distinct worship traditions, the
new Church emphasized the collective nature of the Avar of Light as a unified
pantheon standing against the darker forces that had nearly destroyed creation.

This religious revitalization spread throughout much of Qor'thos, though with
significant regional variations. In Lepia, which became the seat of the
Cathedral of Light, religious authority became the foundation for civic
governance, establishing the theocratic tradition that continues today.
Throughout what would become the Confederacy, individual settlements established
their own relationships with the Church, creating the diverse approaches to
religious authority that would later require careful balancing in Confederate
governance.

The Avatars of Darkness appeared more discreetly during this same period,
establishing or reinforcing cult practices dedicated to their respective Avar.
With the exception of Shæroom, whose maritime associations made her worship too
practically important to suppress entirely, these darker traditions operated
primarily underground, their influence waxing and waning based on local
conditions and the effectiveness of opposing efforts from the Church of Light.

## THE RISE OF NATIONS

### Early Confederacy

For nearly five millennia after the Deracination, the region now known as the
Confederacy remained politically fragmented, with hundreds of independent
settlements, minor kingdoms, and city-states pursuing their own interests with
minimal coordination. Trade connections and occasional military alliances
created temporary networks of cooperation, but no overarching political
structure emerged to unify the diverse peoples of the Scar.

This pattern of fragmentation began to change in the seventh millennium AD, as
increasing threats from beyond the region's borders encouraged greater
cooperation between previously isolated communities. Border skirmishes with
expansionist factions from Bay-Tsao, maritime conflicts with Regician forces,
and occasional raids from Dagmari desert tribes demonstrated the vulnerability
of individual settlements acting alone, creating practical incentives for more
formal alliance structures.

The catalyst for true unification, however, came from an entirely unexpected
direction. In 6704AD, an entity known as Zilrikax emerged from the Underdark
beneath the Scar. This illithid lich commanded vast armies of undead, demons,
and enthralled humanoids, launching a campaign of conquest that threatened all
surface civilizations in the region. The initial assault focused on the
Chondothi Plains, which were transformed from fertile grasslands into the
twisted wasteland now known as the Chondothi Wastes by 6712AD.

As Zilrikax's forces advanced, a group calling themselves the Children of the
Scar emerged to coordinate resistance. Led by Drelpan, a warrior noble from
Griselden, and including representatives from diverse backgrounds—the elven mage
Orla Nopenstallen of Kathrula, the dwarven general Thorgrim Ironbeard of
Ka'zakjorn, the halfling scout Merribel Quickfoot, and others whose names have
been preserved in historical records—this coalition recognized that only unified
action could hope to counter the existential threat posed by the illithlich's
armies.

The Accord of the Allied Dominions, signed at Griselden in 6489AD, established
the foundation of what would become the Confederacy. Unlike later
interpretations that emphasize philosophical principles of cooperation and
mutual benefit, the original Accord was primarily a military alliance, focusing
on coordinated defense, shared intelligence, and combined resource allocation to
oppose Zilrikax's advance.

### The Zilrikax War

The conflict with Zilrikax lasted for nearly three centuries, with periods of
intense fighting interspersed with uneasy stalemates as both sides regrouped and
developed new strategies. The early years saw primarily defensive actions as
Confederate forces struggled to contain the illithlich's advance, establishing
fortified positions along potential invasion routes and evacuating civilian
populations from threatened areas.

Conventional military tactics proved only partially effective against Zilrikax's
forces, which combined overwhelming numbers with magical capabilities that could
neutralize traditional defenses. This reality forced the development of new
approaches, including specialized anti-undead combat units, magical
countermeasures designed specifically to disrupt illithid psionics, and
innovative deployment strategies that capitalized on the diverse capabilities of
the Confederacy's component peoples.

The war extended beyond the Scar's borders, drawing in external powers with
stakes in the region's fate. The Dagmari Empire provided significant support
without formally joining the Confederacy, contributing specialized desert troops
skilled in operating in the transformed environment of the Chondothi Wastes and
magical expertise from the scholarly traditions of Salesh. Regician naval forces
secured maritime supply routes, while diplomats from Käs facilitated
negotiations with potential allies from more distant regions.

Confederate historical traditions emphasize the heroic aspects of this
conflict—the last stands of isolated garrisons buying time for civilian
evacuations, daring raids into enemy territory to rescue captured allies,
ingenious tactical innovations that turned the tide of seemingly hopeless
battles. While modern scholarship recognizes the elements of mythologization in
these accounts, archaeological evidence and preserved military records confirm
the extraordinary challenges faced by Confederate forces and the remarkable
resilience demonstrated in their response.

The turning point came in 6766AD, when Zilrikax was cornered at Silver Tears
Falls in the northern region between Kathrula and Griselden. According to
historical accounts, a priest of Lorothai named Astratis performed a ritual that
utilized the location's unique magical properties to open a portal to the Far
Realm, allowing Confederate forces to banish the illithlich from Qor'thos
entirely rather than attempting to destroy an entity that had proven nearly
impossible to kill permanently.

### Confederate Consolidation

With the immediate threat removed, the Accord of the Allied Dominions might have
disbanded, returning the region to its previous pattern of fragmented
independence. Instead, the practical cooperation established during the war
created momentum toward permanent unification, with many communities recognizing
the benefits of continued coordination even in peacetime.

The transition from military alliance to functioning confederation occurred
gradually between 6766AD and 6781AD, when Griselden was formally recognized as
the Confederate capital. This period saw intense negotiations regarding the
specific terms of continued association, with various factions advocating
different models ranging from loose cooperative agreements to much more
centralized governance structures.

The compromise that emerged—codified in the Confederate Statutes—established a
system that balanced local autonomy with collective action on matters of common
concern. Each member state retained its own internal governance structures,
cultural practices, and legal traditions, while accepting certain overarching
principles and participating in shared institutions addressing defense, trade
regulation, and interstate relations.

This flexible approach accommodated the region's extraordinary diversity,
allowing dwarven kingdoms, elven magocracies, human monarchies, and various
other political systems to maintain their distinctive characteristics while
participating in a broader framework of cooperation. The establishment of
Confederate Guard outposts in all member communities created visible symbols of
unified identity, while the standardization of certain legal principles
facilitated commerce and travel throughout the newly formalized nation.

The early Confederacy faced significant challenges beyond the immediate recovery
from war devastation. Integrating refugee populations—particularly the Chondothi
halflings displaced from their ancestral plains—required substantial resources
and careful cultural accommodation. Rebuilding infrastructure destroyed during
the conflict stretched economic capabilities, while establishing new defensive
systems against potential future threats demanded continued military investment
despite peacetime priorities.

Despite these challenges, the period from the Confederacy's formal establishment
through the early eighth millennium AD saw remarkable growth and development.
Trade networks expanded, cultural exchange flourished, and the diverse talents
of the Confederacy's component peoples combined to create innovations in
numerous fields—from the technological marvels of Bizzynook to the magical
discoveries of Kathrula, from the metallurgical advances of Ka'zakjorn to the
agricultural innovations of Mŷrock.

## THE MODERN ERA

### The Emergence of Junderoth

The geopolitical landscape of Qor'thos changed dramatically in 7417AD with the
sudden appearance of an entirely new continent in the western ocean. The
phenomenon—unprecedented in recorded history—remains incompletely understood
despite centuries of investigation. Magical analysis suggests either a massive
translocation event moving an existing landmass from another plane of existence
or the manifestation of a previously extradimensional space into the material
plane, but neither theory fully explains all observed characteristics of the
event.

Whatever its origins, the continent now known as Junderoth presented both
opportunities and challenges for the established powers of Qor'thos. Initial
exploration revealed vast mineral resources, unique magical properties, and
extraordinary biodiversity, including flora and fauna unknown elsewhere on the
planet. These discoveries triggered competitive colonization efforts as various
nations sought to establish footholds on the new landmass.

The Confederacy established its primary presence at Port Walen on Junderoth's
eastern coast, initially populated primarily by convict laborers but gradually
developing into a significant settlement with substantial military and
commercial infrastructure. Dagmari interests focused on the northern regions,
while Bay-Tsaon colonization concentrated on the western shores closest to their
mainland territories. These overlapping claims created new tensions between
powers previously separated by geography, requiring the development of new
diplomatic frameworks to manage potential conflicts.

Exploration of Junderoth's interior proved exceptionally hazardous, with many
expeditions disappearing entirely and others returning with dramatically reduced
numbers and troubling reports of hostile native entities, environmental hazards,
and inexplicable phenomena that defied conventional understanding. These
challenges limited the extent of colonial development, with most settlements
remaining coastal enclaves rather than expanding into the continental interior.

The emergence of Junderoth coincided with significant technological and magical
innovations throughout Qor'thos, particularly in transportation systems that
facilitated increased inter-continental contact. Improved maritime vessel
designs reduced ocean crossing times, while the development of reliable aerial
transportation—particularly the skyships pioneered by Chondothi
engineers—created new possibilities for trade and communication between
previously isolated regions.

### Contemporary International Relations

The current geopolitical landscape of Qor'thos represents a complex balance of
cooperation and competition between major powers with distinctive cultural
characteristics, historical trajectories, and strategic objectives.
Understanding these relationships is essential for navigating the sophisticated
diplomatic environment that shapes contemporary global dynamics.

The Confederacy maintains its position as a major power through institutional
flexibility rather than overwhelming military or economic strength. Its diverse
internal composition creates both challenges and opportunities in international
relations, as different member states often maintain distinctive relationships
with external powers based on cultural affinities, historical connections, or
specific economic interests. This complexity sometimes complicates unified
Confederate foreign policy but also provides valuable diplomatic channels
through multiple parallel relationships.

Bay-Tsao remains the largest and most powerful single nation on Qor'thos, though
its deliberately isolationist policies limit direct engagement with other
societies. The God-Emperor's regime maintains strict control over external
contacts, permitting trade through designated port facilities but severely
restricting cultural exchange or diplomatic presence beyond carefully managed
formal relationships. Confederate intelligence suggests ongoing internal
tensions within the imperial structure, but the effectiveness of Bay-Tsaon
information control makes reliable assessment difficult.

The Dagmari Empire represents a different model of international engagement,
using its extensive trade networks to extend commercial and cultural influence
throughout Qor'thos while maintaining political autonomy. Dagmari merchant
houses operate in every major Confederate port, Regician market towns, and even
specialized enclaves within otherwise restrictive Bay-Tsaon territories. This
commercial expansion has been accompanied by cultural diffusion, with Dagmari
architectural styles, cuisine, and artistic traditions finding appreciation far
beyond the empire's formal borders.

Käs presents perhaps the most distinctive approach to international relations,
emphasizing philosophical exchange alongside conventional diplomatic and
commercial interaction. Käsi representatives actively promote the Path of the
Abandoned throughout Qor'thos, finding particular resonance in certain
Confederate communities while meeting resistance in regions where traditional
religious institutions maintain stronger influence. This ideological dimension
adds complexity to relationships that might otherwise focus primarily on
practical considerations of trade and security.

The Regician Isles maintain a somewhat paradoxical position—culturally
conservative and internally hierarchical while simultaneously pursuing active
engagement with diverse foreign partners. Regician naval power continues to play
a significant role in maritime security throughout the western oceanic regions,
while the islands' distinctive artistic traditions and luxury products create
continuous demand for cultural exchange despite official preferences for
traditional social structures.

Skün's international presence remains primarily commercial, with exceptional
craftsmanship and unique resource access creating demand for Skünish goods
throughout Qor'thos despite the considerable challenges of transportation from
the southern continent. Skünish diplomatic engagement focuses primarily on trade
access and resource rights, with limited interest in broader geopolitical
concerns except where they directly impact economic relationships or territorial
security.

Small nations, independent city-states, and various non-aligned territories
throughout Qor'thos navigate this complex environment by forming strategic
relationships with major powers while attempting to maintain practical autonomy.
The resulting network of overlapping alliances, commercial agreements, cultural
exchanges, and occasional rivalries creates a geopolitical landscape requiring
sophisticated diplomatic navigation but also offering opportunities for creative
engagement beyond rigid power blocs.

### Current Challenges and Opportunities

As Qor'thos approaches the ten-thousandth year since the Deracination, the world
faces a mixture of persistent challenges and emerging opportunities that will
shape development in the coming centuries. Understanding these factors is
essential for contextualizing current events and anticipating potential future
trajectories across political, economic, cultural, and magical domains.

The exploration and development of Junderoth continues to present both promises
and hazards, with the continent's extraordinary resources attracting continued
investment despite the substantial risks involved. Recent archaeological
discoveries suggesting pre-Deracination civilizations may have existed on
Junderoth raise puzzling questions about the continent's true origins and
history, potentially requiring reassessment of established theological and
historical frameworks if confirmed through further research.

Technological and magical innovation proceeds at an accelerating pace,
particularly in centers like Bizzynook, Kathrula, and Pa'rakhan where different
knowledge traditions productively intersect. Recent advances in combining arcane
principles with mechanical engineering have created possibilities for new
transportation systems, communication networks, and industrial processes that
may transform everyday life throughout the Confederacy and beyond in coming
decades.

Climate patterns show increasing instability in certain regions, particularly
along the edges of the Chondothi Wastes, where the magical contamination from
Zilrikax's occupation continues to interact unpredictably with natural systems.
These changes threaten agricultural production in affected areas while creating
new opportunities in regions benefiting from shifting precipitation patterns or
extended growing seasons. Agricultural research centers throughout the
Confederacy work to develop crop varieties and farming techniques adapted to
these changing conditions.

Religious tensions persist between traditional theological frameworks and newer
interpretative approaches, with the Church of Light's orthodox positions
increasingly challenged by both secular philosophical traditions and reform
movements within religious institutions themselves. These tensions manifest
differently across regions—from the strict traditional observances maintained in
Lepia to the more eclectic spiritual practices found in diverse cities like
Waverest—creating a complex religious landscape requiring careful navigation by
both individual believers and governing institutions.

Security concerns focus primarily on potential threats from unknown regions of
Junderoth, ongoing monitoring of the Underdark passages from which Zilrikax
originally emerged, and maritime protection against occasional piracy in
less-patrolled ocean regions. The Confederate Guard maintains specialized units
addressing each of these concern areas, while diplomatic initiatives seek to
coordinate security responses with other major powers sharing similar interests
in regional stability.

Economic development proceeds unevenly across the Confederacy, with traditional
centers like Ka'zakjorn and Mŷrock maintaining their established positions while
newer commercial hubs emerge in previously peripheral regions. Trade
relationships with external partners continue to diversify, creating both new
opportunities for prosperity and occasional tensions when commercial interests
conflict with other policy objectives or cultural values.

Cultural exchange accelerates through both formal programs and informal
contacts, with artistic traditions, cuisine, fashion, and intellectual
frameworks moving across previously restrictive boundaries. This exchange
creates vibrant hybrid forms in cosmopolitan centers while sometimes generating
concern about preservation of distinctive traditional practices in more
conservative communities, requiring thoughtful balancing of innovation and
continuity as the Confederacy continues developing its unique multicultural
identity.

As we stand at this historical juncture, with nearly ten millennia of
post-Deracination history behind us, the fundamental resilience and adaptability
demonstrated by the diverse peoples of Qor'thos provide reason for cautious
optimism despite the very real challenges we continue to face. The collaborative
frameworks established through Confederate institutions, the technological and
magical innovations emerging from our research centers, and the rich cultural
resources of our diverse communities create foundations for addressing current
problems while building toward a future that honors our complex shared heritage.

## CHRONOLOGY OF MAJOR EVENTS

The following timeline presents key events in the history of Qor'thos, with
particular emphasis on developments relevant to the Confederacy and its
component societies. Dates follow the standard Confederate Calendar using the
Deracination as the pivotal reference point (BD - Before Deracination; AD -
After Deracination).

- **?BD**: The Great Mother enters this corner of the multiverse and gives birth
  to the Avar and Dævar. Once they are mature, she disappears, leaving them to
  shape reality as they see fit, pulling in creatures and beings from other
  planes and creating some of their own to populate the world they have created
  as their playground.

- **~2000BD**: The disagreements between the Avar become full-on war. Mamrielos
  becomes the first theater of war with armies forming on both sides trying to
  claim the empire for Light or Darkness.

- **1462BD**: Carbok slays Solevius, and his blood spills upon Qor'thos. Part of
  this blood falls on what is now the D'jambarosha in Salesh, the capital of
  Dagmar, making it a major pilgrimage site.

- **~1000BD**: Height of the war between the Avar of Light and Darkness, with
  mortals drawn into the conflict as pawns and soldiers.

- **739BD**: Mamrielos breaks into a thousand pieces as the Avar of Darkness
  release The Screaming One, the first of the Dævar, into the world. What became
  of this creature is unknown, but the devastation it caused is still visible in
  the smoking ruins of the once mighty lands of the God's loved Elven empire.

- **~500BD**: The war reaches new heights of destruction, threatening to unmake
  the world itself.

- **0BD/0AD**: The war brings the world to the brink of utter destruction, and
  at the final hour the great Ohm appears from out of nowhere, intoning a solemn
  chant that deracinates the Avar, leaving Qor'thos free from Gods and their
  battles, but still ruined by their wars.

- **193AD**: The future God-Emperor of Bay-Tsao (Chibo-mei) begins his campaign
  against the four Dævar Lords who ruled over Bay-Tsao with tyranny in the wake
  of deracination.

- **235AD**: Lumeros, the first Avatar of Lorothai, manifests in Lepia, marking
  the beginning of the Age of Avatars.

- **878AD**: The Path of the Abandoned is formally established in Käs, with the
  Great Siblinghall built quickly and welcoming all who seek spiritual
  fulfillment without the need of gods.

- **892AD**: King Alaric Regicia defeats the final independent island lords and
  unifies the Regician Isles under one crown.

- **1067AD**: Chibo-mei completes his campaign, defeating the four Dævar Lords
  who ruled over Bay-Tsao with tyranny in the wake of deracination. He
  subsequently takes the title of Jade Emperor and (allegedly) ascends to
  godhood.

- **1209AD**: Lumeros's manifestation in Lepia establishes the Cathedral of
  Light as the central authority of the Church of Light, ushering in a
  resurgence of the church across the Scar.

- **~2000-6000AD**: Development and growth of the major civilizations of
  Qor'thos. Rise and fall of various kingdoms and empires across the continents.

- **6489AD**: The Confederacy is formed to fight the illithlich Zilrikax.

- **~6500-6700AD**: Zilrikax's forces ravage the Scar, especially focusing on
  the Chondothi Plains.

- **6704AD**: Zilrikax emerges from the Underdark in full force, posing an
  existential threat to all nations of the Scar.

- **6712AD**: Zilrikax decimates the Chondothi Plains, transforming them into
  the twisted Chondothi Wastes, forcing the Halflings to migrate southwest.

- **6766AD**: Zilrikax is cornered at Silver Tears Falls and banished by
  Astratis, a priest of Lorothai who served the Children of the Scar.

- **6781AD**: The Confederacy is officially recognized as a nation with
  Griselden as its capital, transitioning from a wartime alliance to a permanent
  political entity.

- **7417AD**: The Continent of Junderoth mysteriously appears on Qor'thos. From
  where it came even the gods do not know, but soon enough the great powers of
  the world look upon its mineral and magickal riches with greed and lust.

- **~8000-9500AD**: Expansion of colonial interests in Junderoth by various
  powers including Dagmar, Bay-Tsao, and the Confederacy.

- **9386AD**: The Great Cartographic Expedition by Kathrula University and
  Vünderax maps the world of Qor'thos.

- **9892AD**: The fourteenth generation of the Regicia dynasty begins with the
  coronation of King Uther Regicia IV.

- **9983AD**: Current year.
