# LEPIA

Situated on the western coast, Lepia is a major port, though it is mostly known
as the holiest city of the Confederacy, the Cathedral of Light found in its old
town being the center of the Confederate Church. All faiths are worshipped in
the city limits, even those dedicated to some of the more agreeable Avar of
Darkness and the godless Path of the Abandoned. The city and its environs is a
Theocracy, with the head of each faith having some say in governance, though
ultimately ruled by the Most Holy of the Cathedral of Light.

Rising from a series of seven hills that overlook a natural harbor on the
western coast of the Scar, Lepia presents an awe-inspiring visage to approaching
travelers. White marble temples and religious structures crown each hill, their
gilded domes and towering spires catching the light of the setting sun and
giving the city its nickname: "The Crown of the West." Gleaming stone stairways
and processional avenues connect these sacred heights, while the secular city
spreads through the valleys between them.

The air in Lepia carries the mingled scents of sea salt, burning incense, and
the distinctive aromatic herbs that grow on the surrounding hillsides. Bells
ring out the hours from countless temples and shrines, their tones blending into
a complex harmony that residents learn to read like a subtle timepiece. The
soundscape is further enriched by chanting from various religious ceremonies,
the calls of street vendors, and the constant background murmur of theological
debate emanating from countless forums, schools, and informal gathering places.

Unlike the more militaristic or commercially focused cities of the Confederacy,
Lepia's architecture emphasizes beauty, inspiration, and connection to the
divine. Columns, domes, arches, and statuary adorn even modest structures, while
the religious buildings that dominate the skyline represent the height of
Confederate architectural achievement. The city planning reflects its
theological foundation – all roads ultimately lead to sacred spaces, with the
Cathedral of Light at the center of this spiritual web.

# THE SACRED SUMMIT

The highest of Lepia's seven hills is crowned by the Cathedral of Light, the
preeminent religious structure in the Confederacy and the administrative heart
of the Confederate Church. The hill and its surroundings form the Sacred Summit
district, where the most important religious institutions are concentrated and
where pilgrims from across Qor'thos come to seek spiritual enlightenment and
divine favor.

The Cathedral itself is a marvel of architectural achievement that has been
continuously expanded and enhanced over the centuries. Its central dome, plated
with gold and inset with thousands of crystals that catch and refract sunlight,
creates a radiant beacon visible for miles around. Seven great spires surround
the dome, representing the Avar of Light, while the cathedral's vast interior is
divided into distinct worship spaces for each deity while maintaining a unified
whole – a physical embodiment of the Church's theological principles.

The atmosphere on the Sacred Summit is one of reverent activity. The air is
perpetually infused with incense, and the sounds of prayer, chanting, and
ceremonial music flow from the Cathedral and the many smaller temples and
shrines that surround it. Pilgrims from across the Confederacy and beyond move
along processional avenues in various states of devotional practice – some
walking silently in meditation, others performing ritual movements, and some
proceeding on their knees for the final approach to the Cathedral.

White marble is the predominant building material, often accented with gold,
silver, and semiprecious stones. The architecture emphasizes vertical elements
that draw the eye upward toward the heavens, with liberal use of columns,
arches, and detailed reliefs depicting scenes from religious history and
mythology. Even the paving stones of the Summit's streets and plazas are carved
with sacred symbols and laid in patterns that hold theological significance.

## NOTABLE LOCATIONS

- **The Cathedral of Light** - The spiritual heart of the Confederate Church and
  the most sacred site in the Confederacy. Its vast interior can accommodate
  thousands of worshippers beneath the central dome, where an elaborate
  mechanism channels sunlight through prisms to create ever-changing patterns of
  rainbow light across the sanctuary floor. The current Most Holy, **Father
  Cadias Sarongal**, leads the Confederate Church from the Cathedral's Sanctum,
  balancing spiritual leadership with political responsibilities.

- **The Pilgrim's Path** - A wide, marble-paved avenue that spirals up the
  Sacred Summit, marked with stations where pilgrims perform specific devotions
  or contemplate aspects of the Church's teachings. Guardian of the Path
  **Sister Illuminara**, an elderly human woman with striking white hair,
  ensures that all pilgrims have access regardless of physical ability or
  station.

- **The Theological Academy** - Where priests and scholars study the deepest
  mysteries of faith and train for religious service. The campus consists of
  seven collegial structures arranged around a central courtyard featuring a
  model of the known world. Arch-Scholar **Thaddeus Truthseeker**, a
  bespectacled half-elf with a photographic memory, oversees the curriculum and
  mediates theological disputes.

- **The Reliquary of Saints** - A sacred museum housing artifacts associated
  with canonized saints from throughout Confederate history. Each relic is
  displayed in an elaborate reliquary of precious metals and crystal, with
  accompanying texts explaining its significance. Reliquary Keeper **Brother
  Preservus**, a meticulous dwarf with trembling hands but unwavering faith,
  maintains the collection.

- **The Oracle's Alcove** - A small temple where those who have received direct
  divine inspiration through dreams or visions can have their experiences
  interpreted by trained priests. The circular chamber is designed with perfect
  acoustics that allow whispered confessions to be heard clearly by the
  attending oracles while remaining inaudible to others present. Senior Oracle
  **Lysandra Dreamwalker**, an elderly elf with milky-white eyes, leads the
  interpretive service.

- **The Celestial Observatory** - A structure combining astronomical research
  with religious contemplation, based on the belief that the movements of
  celestial bodies reflect divine patterns. The domed building houses
  sophisticated telescopes alongside shrines to Orthalius and Lorothai.
  Astronomer-Priest **Stellaris Skywatcher**, a tiefling whose horns are adorned
  with tiny star-shaped jewels, coordinates observations and their theological
  interpretation.

- **The Garden of Reflection** - A serene space featuring plants mentioned in
  sacred texts, arranged in patterns that hold religious significance. Seven
  fountains representing the Avar of Light provide gentle background music with
  their flowing waters. Garden Tender **Verdant**, a quiet firbolg who speaks
  rarely but with profound insight, maintains this contemplative environment.

# THE TEMPLE DISTRICT

Spreading across three of Lepia's hills and the valleys between them, the Temple
District is home to hundreds of religious structures representing faiths from
across the Confederacy and beyond. While the Cathedral of Light dominates the
Sacred Summit, the Temple District accommodates the full spectrum of spiritual
practice, from grand temples to modest shrines, and serves as the residential
quarter for much of Lepia's clerical population.

Unlike the Sacred Summit's focus on the Confederate Church, the Temple District
embodies the Confederacy's commitment to religious tolerance. Temples dedicated
to racial deities like Moradin and Corellon Larethian stand alongside shrines to
more obscure powers and even discreet places of worship for acceptable Avar of
Darkness like Shæroom. Each religious community has developed its own
neighborhood, creating a patchwork of distinct architectural styles, cultural
practices, and local regulations.

The atmosphere varies dramatically depending on location. Some areas maintain
reverent silence, with devotees moving quietly between prayer services, while
others embrace more exuberant forms of worship, filled with music, dancing, and
ritual performances. Incense smoke from dozens of varieties mingles in the air,
creating an ever-changing aromatic landscape that residents claim to be able to
navigate by scent alone. The district comes alive during religious festivals,
when processions wind through the streets and communities compete to create the
most impressive displays.

Architecture throughout the district reflects the incredible diversity of faith
traditions. Stepped pyramids, circular temples, underground sanctuaries, and
living shrines grown from carefully tended plants exist in close proximity.
Building materials range from the prevalent local marble to imported woods,
adobe, crystal, and occasionally more exotic substances with religious
significance. Despite this diversity, city ordinances require certain aesthetic
harmonies to be maintained, preventing jarring visual clashes.

## NOTABLE LOCATIONS

- **The Interfaith Forum** - A circular plaza surrounded by small pavilions
  representing each major religion practiced in Lepia. The space serves as
  neutral ground for theological discussions and planning of multi-faith
  initiatives. Forum Moderator **Harmonius Peaceweaver**, a human with
  remarkable diplomatic skills, ensures debates remain respectful and
  productive.

- **The Temple of the Path of the Abandoned** - Despite its name, this structure
  celebrates natural beauty rather than divine presence, embodying the
  philosophy that mortals should appreciate the world as it exists without
  supernatural oversight. The open-air sanctuary features gardens, sculptures,
  and contemplation spaces. Philosophical guide **Seeker Stonehill**, a
  pragmatic dwarf, welcomes visitors with thought-provoking questions rather
  than dogmatic assertions.

- **St. Myathethil's Great Forge** - Temple to Færunda and communal workshop
  open to all faiths, where religious artifacts, ceremonial items, and temple
  furnishings are crafted with appropriate reverence. The complex of forges,
  workshops, and design studios is led by Grandmason **Metalshaper**, a female
  dwarf whose creations are sought by temples across the Confederacy.

- **The Grove of the Green Man** - A living temple where druids maintain sacred
  trees and plants brought from ancient forests across Qor'thos. The winding
  paths between groves represent the interconnection of all life. Grove Guardian
  **Oakhart**, a centuries-old elf who has grown bark-like patches on his skin,
  leads seasonal ceremonies that draw participants from various faith
  traditions.

- **The Temple of Cosmic Balance** - A unique sanctuary dedicated to
  contemplating the equilibrium between Light and Darkness, carefully avoiding
  actual worship of Dark Avar while acknowledging their role in the universal
  order. The circular building is half white marble, half obsidian, with a clear
  dividing line running through its center. Balance Keeper **Twilight**, a
  kalashtar whose appearance shifts subtly throughout the day, navigates the
  delicate theological position the temple maintains.

- **The Clerical Quarter** - Residential area for priests, monks, nuns, and
  religious scholars from across the Temple District. The neighborhood features
  communal dining halls, libraries, meditation gardens, and apartments ranging
  from ascetically simple to comfortably appointed based on different religious
  requirements. Quarter Administrator **Prudence Fairquarters**, a practical
  halfling woman, manages the complex housing assignments with remarkable
  efficiency.

- **The Temple of Pareesha's Embrace** - The most ornate of Lepia's many temples
  to the All-Lover, famous for its stunning sculptures, sensual architecture,
  and beautiful religious artifacts. Unlike the more utilitarian establishments
  dedicated to Pareesha in other cities, this temple focuses on the aesthetic
  and spiritual aspects of love rather than the physical. High Priestess
  **Lovelia Heartstrings**, an elf of extraordinary beauty and grace, leads
  ceremonies celebrating various forms of love and connection.

# THE SCHOLAR'S WARD

While faith may be Lepia's foundation, knowledge is its great complement,
embodied in the Scholar's Ward. Occupying one of the city's seven hills and
extending into the adjacent valley, this district is home to libraries,
academies, research institutions, and the dwellings of those who dedicate their
lives to intellectual pursuits. The relationship between faith and reason is
constantly negotiated in Lepia, and the Scholar's Ward represents the productive
tension between divine revelation and rational inquiry.

The district centers around the Great Library of Orthalius, a vast repository of
knowledge second only to Kathrula University in the breadth and depth of its
collections. Surrounding this monumental structure are numerous specialized
academies, research institutes, scriptoriums, and debate forums, each dedicated
to particular fields of study or philosophical approaches. Unlike the purely
academic focus of Kathrula, Lepia's scholarly institutions maintain varying
relationships with religious traditions, creating a spectrum from faith-based
learning to secular rational inquiry.

The atmosphere in the Scholar's Ward is one of intense but restrained
intellectual energy. The streets are notably quieter than elsewhere in Lepia,
with many conversations conducted in hushed tones out of respect for
concentration. The air carries the distinctive scent of parchment, ink, and the
peculiar dust that accumulates in spaces filled with ancient books. Occasional
excited discussions erupt in public squares where new ideas are tested in
impromptu debates, but even these passionate exchanges follow implicit rules of
logical structure and evidence-based argumentation.

Architecture in the district emphasizes function while maintaining aesthetic
harmony with the rest of Lepia. Buildings feature ample windows to provide
natural light for reading and study, often oriented to maximize illumination
while minimizing glare on writing surfaces. Colonnaded walkways provide
sheltered outdoor spaces for ambulatory discussions, a teaching method favored
by many of Lepia's philosophical schools. Libraries and academies typically
feature central courtyards with fountains whose gentle sounds create ideal
background noise for contemplation.

## NOTABLE LOCATIONS

- **The Great Library of Orthalius** - A vast repository of knowledge covering
  every field of study known in the Confederacy. The massive structure features
  a central rotunda housing rare manuscripts, with specialized wings radiating
  outward like spokes on a wheel. First Reader **Lexicana Wordkeeper**, a human
  woman who reportedly has read every volume in the collection, oversees the
  library's operations with assistance from a small army of scribes,
  researchers, and preservation specialists.

- **The Seven Schools of Philosophy** - A complex of buildings where different
  philosophical traditions maintain their headquarters, ranging from faith-based
  theological inquiry to rationalist materialism. Each school occupies a
  structure architecturally expressing its fundamental principles, arranged
  around a central forum where inter-school debates are conducted. Grand
  Dialectician **Logos Truthseeker**, an elderly human male, coordinates the
  periodic public debates that attract spectators from across the city.

- **The Natural Philosophy Institute** - Where empirical investigation of the
  physical world is conducted through observation and experimentation. The
  facility includes laboratories, specimen collections, and equipment for
  studying everything from astronomical phenomena to microscopic life. Chief
  Investigator **Empirica**, a gnome with perpetually ink-stained fingers and
  clothes singed from various experiments, leads research efforts that sometimes
  challenge religious orthodoxy.

- **The Scriptorum** - A massive workshop where manuscripts are copied,
  illustrated, and bound for distribution throughout the Confederacy. The
  multi-level structure is designed to maximize natural light, with specialized
  areas for different stages of book production. Master Scribe **Calligraphus**,
  a half-elf with supernaturally steady hands, maintains exacting standards for
  every volume produced.

- **The Historical Archives** - Repository of documents related to Confederate
  history, including original copies of the Confederate Statutes and records
  from the war against Zilrikax. The fortified building features elaborate
  preservation enchantments to protect its irreplaceable contents. Chief
  Archivist **Remembrance Dustfinger**, a dwarf with an encyclopedic memory, can
  locate specific documents within minutes despite the archive's vast scope.

- **The Translator's Guild** - Where texts from across Qor'thos are rendered
  into languages of the Confederacy, and Confederate works are prepared for
  foreign readers. The guild building features specialized libraries of
  dictionaries and cultural references, alongside quarters for visiting language
  experts. Guildmaster **Polyglotta**, a kenku whose perfect mimicry makes them
  an unparalleled linguist, coordinates translation projects prioritized by
  scholarly and diplomatic importance.

- **The Observatory of Celestial Patterns** - Unlike the religiously oriented
  Celestial Observatory on the Sacred Summit, this facility approaches astronomy
  from a scientific perspective. The domed structure houses precisely calibrated
  instruments for tracking and predicting celestial movements. Chief Astronomer
  **Stellara Nightwatcher**, a tiefling whose eyes seem to reflect starlight
  even in daylight, maintains detailed records of observations dating back
  centuries.

# THE HARBOR DISTRICT

Lepia may be known primarily as a holy city, but its excellent natural harbor
has ensured it remains an important commercial center as well. The Harbor
District occupies the lowest-lying area of the city, embracing a crescent-shaped
bay where ships from across Qor'thos dock to exchange goods, passengers, and
ideas. While less architecturally impressive than the city's religious and
scholarly quarters, the district serves as Lepia's vital connection to the wider
world and provides much of the economic foundation that supports its loftier
institutions.

The harbor itself is a engineering marvel, with stone breakwaters extending into
the sea to create a sheltered anchorage capable of accommodating hundreds of
vessels. The waterfront is lined with wharves, warehouses, shipyards, and
commercial establishments, all carefully regulated to maintain both
functionality and a degree of aesthetic harmony with the rest of the city.
Unlike the purely commercial ports found elsewhere, Lepia's harbor includes
numerous shrines and small temples catering to sailors and travelers, as well as
facilities specifically designed to welcome religious pilgrims arriving by sea.

The atmosphere in the Harbor District is one of controlled chaos, with the
bustle of commerce tempered by the city's overall sense of order and purpose.
The air carries the mingled scents of saltwater, exotic goods, cooking food from
dockside eateries, and the occasional waft of incense from maritime shrines. The
soundscape is equally diverse – crashing waves, creaking ship timbers, the calls
of sailors and merchants, seabirds crying overhead, and the distant bells of the
city's many temples creating a distinctive auditory backdrop.

The architecture is primarily functional but maintains elements of Lepian
aesthetic principles, with colonnaded warehouses, decorative elements on
commercial buildings, and public spaces featuring fountains and statuary often
depicting maritime themes with religious overtones. Building heights are
strictly regulated to ensure they don't obstruct views of the sacred structures
on the hills above, creating a gradually rising cityscape from harbor to summit.

## NOTABLE LOCATIONS

- **The Pilgrim's Landing** - A dedicated section of the harbor specifically
  designed to receive religious travelers. The area features reception halls for
  each major faith tradition, where new arrivals can receive guidance,
  accommodation recommendations, and information about religious sites and
  upcoming ceremonies. Pilgrim Coordinator **Welcome Brightheart**, a cheerful
  halfling woman, ensures visitors from across Qor'thos find appropriate support
  for their spiritual journeys.

- **The Maritime Shrine of Shæroom** - The most prominent temple to an Avar of
  Darkness permitted within Lepia, acknowledging the necessity of the ocean
  goddess's blessing for safe harbor operations. The shrine sits partially
  submerged at the harbor entrance, accessible by a stone walkway that
  disappears at high tide. Priestess **Tidecaller**, a triton with pale blue
  skin, performs daily rituals to ensure the harbor's safety and prosperity.

- **The Harbormaster's Tower** - A tall, slender structure overlooking the
  entire bay, from which port operations are coordinated and monitored. The
  tower features a sophisticated system of flags, lights, and speaking tubes for
  communicating with vessels in the harbor. Harbormaster **Waveguide**, a
  weathered human male with skin tanned to leather by decades of sun exposure,
  manages the complex scheduling of berths and loading operations.

- **The Merchant's Exchange** - Where traders from across Qor'thos negotiate
  contracts, arrange financing, and exchange information about markets
  throughout the known world. The columned building features a central trading
  floor surrounded by private meeting rooms and offices. Exchange Master
  **Goldscale**, a dragonborn whose scales shimmer with a metallic luster,
  ensures fair practices and arbitrates disputes.

- **The Customs House** - Where goods entering Lepia are inspected, documented,
  and taxed according to Confederate and local regulations. The imposing
  structure combines administrative offices with secure warehouses for holding
  items requiring further examination. Chief Inspector **Verity Scrutinous**, a
  no-nonsense human woman with uncanny intuition about smuggling attempts,
  oversees a staff selected as much for incorruptibility as for efficiency.

- **The Shipwright's Guild** - Where Lepia's famed vessels are designed and
  constructed, combining exceptional seaworthiness with distinctive aesthetic
  elements that identify them as products of the holy city. The extensive
  facility includes design studios, woodworking shops, and multiple shipways for
  vessels of various sizes. Guild Master **Keel Straightedge**, a half-elf with
  an intuitive understanding of hydrodynamics, maintains the high standards for
  which Lepian ships are known.

- **The Mariner's Rest** - An establishment offering accommodations, meals, and
  entertainment specifically designed for sailors between voyages. Unlike the
  rowdier sailor's taverns found in other port cities, the Rest maintains a
  relatively refined atmosphere in keeping with Lepia's character. Proprietor
  **Harbor Homefire**, a motherly human woman, creates a welcoming environment
  while ensuring behavior remains within acceptable bounds.

# THE RESIDENTIAL TERRACES

While Lepia's hills are crowned with temples and institutions, and its harbor
bustles with commerce, the majority of its citizens make their homes on the
Residential Terraces that step down the hillsides between these more prominent
districts. Over centuries, the natural contours of the landscape have been
enhanced through careful engineering to create a series of level platforms upon
which neighborhoods have developed, connected by an intricate network of
stairways, ramps, and occasionally mechanical lifts for goods and those unable
to navigate the city's vertical geography.

Unlike many cities where residential areas are clearly stratified by wealth and
status, Lepia's terraces feature a more complex social geography. While certain
neighborhoods are known for housing particular professions or communities, the
city's theocratic values discourage extreme segregation based on wealth. Each
terrace typically includes dwellings ranging from modest apartments to
comfortable villas, often arranged around small plazas featuring public
fountains, gardens, or minor shrines serving as neighborhood focal points.

The atmosphere varies by location, with terraces closer to the Harbor District
generally busier and more commercial in character, while those adjacent to the
Temple District or Scholar's Ward adopt some of the character of these
neighboring zones. Common to all residential areas is a sense of community
reinforced through shared rituals, both religious and secular, from daily
prayers at neighborhood shrines to seasonal festivals that transform the stepped
streets into venues for celebration.

Architecture throughout the Residential Terraces follows Lepian principles of
harmony and proportion, with buildings typically constructed of local stone in
pale colors that reflect the abundant sunlight. Most dwellings feature internal
courtyards providing private outdoor space, and rooftop gardens are common,
creating a cascade of greenery visible from higher elevations. Building heights
are strictly regulated both for aesthetic reasons and to ensure equitable access
to light and views for all residents.

## NOTABLE LOCATIONS

- **The Grand Staircase** - A monumental public stairway connecting the Harbor
  District to the Sacred Summit, passing through each residential terrace. More
  than merely a transportation route, the staircase serves as a processional way
  for religious ceremonies and features landings with fountains, small shrines,
  and rest areas. Stairway Keeper **Ascendus**, an elderly human who has climbed
  the entire route daily for decades, coordinates maintenance and ensures the
  steps remain safe for all users.

- **The Forum of Citizens** - Where representatives from each neighborhood
  gather to discuss matters affecting the residential community before
  presenting consensus positions to the religious governance. The circular plaza
  features acoustically designed speaking areas and tiered seating arranged to
  facilitate democratic discussion. Forum Moderator **Voxpopuli**, a charismatic
  half-elf, ensures all voices are heard while maintaining orderly proceedings.

- **The Public Baths** - A complex of bathing facilities open to all citizens,
  combining practical hygiene with social function and religious significance
  through purification rituals. The multi-level structure includes pools of
  varying temperatures, steam rooms, and communal spaces where citizens from all
  walks of life interact as equals. Bath Guardian **Clearwater**, a water genasi
  whose presence naturally purifies the waters, oversees operations and
  maintains the centuries-old traditions of the facility.

- **The Market Terrace** - A bustling commercial area serving the residential
  neighborhoods, where daily necessities and local crafts are traded. Unlike the
  international commerce of the Harbor District, this market focuses on goods
  produced within Lepia and its immediate surroundings. Market Manager
  **Fairprice**, a shrewd but ethical halfling, ensures merchants adhere to the
  city's regulations regarding quality and pricing.

- **The Artisan's Quarter** - Where craftspeople produce the distinctive goods
  for which Lepia is known, from religious artifacts to everyday items elevated
  through artistic attention. The neighborhood features workshops open to public
  viewing, where visitors can watch masters create and sometimes participate in
  the process. Quarter Elder **Mastercraft**, a dwarf whose hands show the marks
  of decades of work across multiple disciplines, coordinates guild
  relationships and apprenticeship programs.

- **The Healing Gardens** - A series of terraced gardens where medicinal plants
  are cultivated for use in the city's temples and hospitals. The carefully
  designed spaces serve both practical and therapeutic purposes, with paths
  arranged to encourage contemplative walking among the healing flora. Garden
  Tender **Remedius**, a soft-spoken firbolg with extensive knowledge of herbal
  medicine, maintains the gardens and provides instruction in plant
  identification and proper usage.

- **The Children's Academy** - Where Lepia's young citizens receive their
  foundational education before specializing in religious, scholarly, or
  practical pursuits. The school complex includes open-air classrooms, play
  areas designed to encourage both physical development and creative thinking,
  and small temples where children learn the basics of various faith traditions.
  Headmistress **Nurtura Wiseheart**, a maternal human woman with seemingly
  unlimited patience, oversees a curriculum balancing practical knowledge with
  spiritual and ethical development.
