# WAVEREST

Rising dramatically from the southwestern shores of the Scar, where the Ostris
Ocean meets the rugged coastline, Waverest stands as one of the Confederacy's
most remarkable achievements—a city that has defied both gravity and convention
to create a thriving metropolis spanning from sea level to cliff top. Founded
over three millennia ago by Regician sailors seeking freedom from their
kingdom's rigid hierarchies, Waverest has evolved from a simple harbor to a
complex urban ecosystem integrating diverse peoples, architectural styles, and
governing philosophies into a unified yet distinctly segmented whole.

Unlike the inland cities of the Confederacy with their outward sprawl across
available flatlands, Waverest developed vertically due to the constraints of its
dramatic geographical setting. This unique evolution has created the distinctive
three-tiered structure that gives the city its colloquial name: "The Three
Towns." Wharfton, the original settlement built directly into the coastal cliff
face; Rockton, carved into the cliff itself by exiled dwarven miners; and
Talton, spread across the cliff top and initially populated by Chondothi
refugees during the Zilrikax war. Each tier maintains its own character,
governance traditions, and demographic composition while together forming a
cohesive urban entity united by common economic interests and the remarkable
infrastructure connecting these seemingly separate worlds.

The atmosphere of Waverest engages all senses in ways unique among Confederate
cities. The air carries the mingled scents of salt spray, exotic spices from
distant trading partners, the earthy fungal aroma rising from Rockton's depths,
and occasionally the distinctive herbal notes of Chondothi cuisine wafting down
from Talton. The soundscape blends the constant rhythm of waves against the
shore, the creaking of countless ships at harbor, the echoing ring of dwarven
hammers from subterranean forges, and the multilingual buzz of commerce
conducted in dozens of dialects and tongues from across Qor'thos.

Architecturally, the city presents three distinct but interconnected styles.
Wharfton features weathered wooden structures built atop and around ancient
ships permanently moored to create the original harbor, with newer constructions
extending both upward and outward over the centuries. Rockton demonstrates
classic dwarven stonework adapted to the unique local geology, creating a
subterranean landscape of grand halls and intricate tunnel networks illuminated
by bioluminescent fungi. Talton blends Chondothi design influences with
practical Confederate styles, resulting in a sprawling arrangement of
neighborhoods that balance the nomadic heritage of its founders with the
permanence of established urban life.

For visitors and residents alike, the most striking feature of Waverest is
unquestionably its transportation infrastructure—particularly the Great
Elevator, a marvel of archano-steam engineering that connects the three tiers
with a continuous circulation of passenger and freight platforms. Supplementing
this central artery are countless smaller elevators, stairways carved into the
cliff face, pulley systems, and even the occasional flying carpet service
catering to wealthier clients or emergency needs. These vertical pathways create
a three-dimensional transportation network unlike anything found in more
conventional cities, transforming what could have been insurmountable divisions
into manageable transitions between distinct but interconnected urban
environments.

As one of the Confederacy's primary maritime gateways to the wider world,
Waverest serves critical diplomatic, commercial, and cultural functions that
extend far beyond its physical boundaries. The city's distinctive three-part
harmony of Wharfton's maritime expertise, Rockton's industrial capacity, and
Talton's agricultural and overland trade connections creates a uniquely
resilient economic ecosystem that has weathered countless storms—both literal
and metaphorical—throughout its long history.

## WHARFTON

### Overview

The oldest of the three towns, Wharfton was founded nearly three and a half
millennia ago, when a fleet of Regician pirates converted a two-mile stretch of
rocky beach into a network of promenades lined with buildings jutting out from
the cliff face nestling the burgeoning town. To accommodate their ships, and to
encourage more to come as traders, they created a web of staithes, jetties,
piers, docks, wharfs, permanently anchored ships and other such waterborne
constructions.

Unlike conventional coastal cities built primarily on solid ground, Wharfton
represents a remarkable adaptation to limited space, with much of its
infrastructure extending over water on sophisticated pile systems or
incorporated into the cliff face itself. This three-dimensional approach to
urban development creates a distinctive cityscape where buildings seem to grow
organically from both horizontal and vertical surfaces, connected by a complex
network of boardwalks, ladders, rope bridges, and occasionally
precarious-looking wooden extensions that somehow withstand the constant assault
of sea spray and storm winds.

The atmosphere is quintessentially maritime, with the constant sound of waves
and creaking wood providing a persistent backdrop to the multilingual
negotiations of merchants, calls of dockworkers, and occasional shanties
performed by off-duty sailors. The air carries the mingled scents of salt water,
fish markets, exotic cargoes, brewing ale, and the distinctive tar used to
weatherproof wooden structures against the harsh marine environment. This
sensory landscape changes with the tides and seasons, creating a dynamic urban
experience that reminds inhabitants of their intimate connection with the sea's
rhythms.

Despite its age, Wharfton maintains a sense of impermanence and adaptability,
with structures constantly being repaired, rebuilt, or reconfigured to meet
changing needs. This architectural fluidity reflects the practical necessity of
maintaining functional structures in a challenging environment and the
philosophical outlook of a community founded by those seeking freedom from rigid
conventions. The result is a cityscape that feels simultaneously ancient and
contemporary, with weathered structural elements supporting relatively recent
additions in a continuous cycle of regeneration rather than wholesale
replacement.

### CLIFFSIDE

A small stretch of rocky beach that hugs the cliff towering above it is where
the founders of Waverest decided to dock permanently, and much has changed since
then. The beach has been planked over with gangways and roads and the very cliff
itself has been tunnelled into, though the watering hole for which it is named
still stands, serving beverages and gossip to this day. This is the most
affluent and priciest area of Waverest, and also one of the most important
economic centers of the Confederacy.

Cliffside boasts the only brick or masonry in Wharfton, though with many boats
docked on its outskirts and many of its older buildings are made of wood. The
sea breeze mingles with the waste of the town which filters into the water below
its planks. The crash of waves, screeching of gulls and boasts of wharf side
vendors bounce off the rock face funnelling the sound across the Ostris ocean.

#### NOTABLE LOCATIONS

- **St. Alfred's, Temple of Lorothai**: A large Confederate church filled with
  cloisters devoted to all the Avar of Light, the current Most Illuminated being
  **Rowen Bosun**. The temple's architecture seamlessly integrates with the
  cliff face, with parts of the sanctuary extending into natural rock chambers.
  Magnificent stained glass windows capture and amplify the limited direct
  sunlight that reaches this level, creating dramatic illumination effects
  during certain hours.

- **Bank of Waverest**: Carved into the cliffside with vaults that run deeper
  underground, and some say under water. The current manager is the human
  **Silas Armond**. The bank's impressive stone façade contrasts with
  surrounding wooden structures, its heavy doors and visible security measures
  advertising both prosperity and prudence to potential clients and would-be
  thieves alike.

- **Confederate Guardhouse Wharfton**: Controlled by **Commander Garios**, a
  stern half-elf with decades of experience navigating the complex
  jurisdictional boundaries between Waverest's three towns. The guardhouse
  serves as both security headquarters and administrative center for Confederate
  presence at this level, maintaining careful coordination with similar
  facilities in Rockton and Talton.

- **_Gazette_ Building**: The offices of the local newspaper which is currently
  edited by **Sarena Diver**, a sharp-witted human woman whose investigative
  reporting has exposed several major corruption schemes over her thirty-year
  career. The multi-story wooden structure features an impressive printing
  operation on the ground floor with editorial offices above, while the
  distinctive mechanical clock on its façade serves as a common meeting point
  and unofficial timekeeper for nearby businesses.

- **The Lord Admiral's Mooring**: A dry-docked ship that houses the politics and
  leader of the City. This massive vessel, once flagship of Waverest's founding
  fleet, has been continuously maintained and modified over centuries to serve
  as both administrative headquarters and living symbol of the city's maritime
  heritage. Its deck serves as public meeting space for important announcements,
  while interior chambers house governmental functions and ceremonial spaces for
  diplomatic receptions.

- **The Pilfered Palimpsest**: Large bookshop catering to the general reader
  (not much magic) that buys and sells books curated by bibliophile (and secret
  romance author) **Eloise Deckhand** (pen name **Veronica Varisai**). The shop
  occupies a former warehouse whose renovated interior features floor-to-ceiling
  shelving, comfortable reading nooks, and an unexpected rooftop garden
  accessible by narrow spiral staircase. The establishment has become something
  of a cultural salon, hosting author readings and discussion groups that
  attract intellectual visitors from all three towns.

- **The Rockway**: Opening to Rockton that also has a Paternoster stop-off. This
  major transitional point between Wharfton and Rockton features an impressively
  engineered entrance carved directly into the cliff face, flanked by
  dwarf-crafted pillars depicting intertwined maritime and mining motifs. The
  bustling gateway serves as customs checkpoint, transfer station for goods
  moving between levels, and strategic security position monitoring movement
  between the distinctly different environments.

- **The Silver Stowage**: An indoor market of general goods and some higher
  price items, currently managed by the elderly one-eyed gnome **Felnip
  Shpudeldooper**. The sprawling commercial space occupies several connected
  former warehouses, with designated sections for different categories of
  merchandise ranging from everyday necessities to luxury imports. Its central
  atrium serves as performance space for street musicians and occasional
  theatrical productions, while the labyrinthine arrangement of vendor stalls
  creates a shopping experience that rewards exploration and regular visits to
  discover new offerings.

- **The Wave's Rest**: Historic inn & tavern from which the city gets its name.
  The current landlord is **Bartemius Ketch**, a human sailor who has long since
  given up seafaring. This ancient establishment, parts of which date to the
  original settlement, combines practical hospitality functions with profound
  cultural significance as the city's namesake and oldest continuously operating
  business. Its main taproom features a massive central fireplace surrounded by
  tables crafted from shipwreck timbers, while the walls display artifacts
  recovered from notable wrecks over the city's long maritime history.

### EAST STAITH

This long wharf bustles with Dagmari, Käsi and Regician sailors and immigrants,
and sees the most traffic of the districts of Waverest. Many smaller piers jut
out of the staith offering multiple docks and space for traders and merchants to
hawk their goods.

The aromas of Dagmari curry, jaloffa bean stew and Regician fish & chips compete
with the ocean to create a cavalcade of olfactory sensation. A blend of the
three culture's architectural styles melds with the wooden background that
typifies Waverest.

#### NOTABLE LOCATIONS

- **Anen's Bazaar**: General store run by the Dagmari merchant **Anen
  Dajbrohma**. This exotic emporium specializes in goods from distant lands,
  with particular emphasis on Dagmari luxury items, textiles, and spices
  unavailable elsewhere in the Confederacy. The shop's distinctive golden dome
  and intricate geometric decorations make it instantly recognizable from a
  distance, while its interior organization follows traditional Dagmari market
  layouts designed to encourage browsing and discovery.

- **Battle of the Cods**: Regician style fish & chip shop run by **Jeremiah
  Tarnbry**, a robust human whose family has operated this establishment for
  seven generations. Beyond serving the iconic comfort food of the Regician
  Isles, the shop functions as unofficial community center for expatriate
  Regicians, who gather to share news from home and maintain cultural traditions
  despite distance from their homeland. The dining area features nautical
  decorations and memorabilia from famous naval engagements, reflecting the
  martial heritage still valued by many Regicians.

- **The Deckhand's Respite**: Dive bar catering to longshoremen & the like run
  by **Edmund Boatswain**, a middle aged human. This unpretentious establishment
  provides affordable refreshment and basic meals to the working-class backbone
  of Wharfton's maritime economy. The spartan interior features sturdy furniture
  designed to withstand occasional rough handling, while the prominent
  chalkboard listing ships expected to arrive or depart serves both practical
  scheduling purposes and as conversation starter among patrons planning their
  work and leisure around port activities.

- **The Djarom'bosa**: Dagmari restaurant owned by **Iago Alhambosh**, a human
  man whose culinary training in Salesh established him as Waverest's premier
  expert on authentic Dagmari cuisine. The restaurant occupies a former
  warehouse converted to emulate traditional Dagmari dining halls, with low
  cushioned seating, intricate mosaic floors, and strategically placed fountains
  creating both atmosphere and comfortable humidity levels. Live musicians
  perform on designated evenings, attracting customers seeking both culinary and
  cultural experiences.

- **Harbourmaster's Lodge**: The registry for vessels coming in to and going out
  from the East Staith currently run by **Claudia Rothgar**, a half-elf whose
  meticulous record-keeping and fair-but-firm enforcement of maritime
  regulations have earned respect from captains of all nationalities. The lodge
  combines administrative functions--processing arrival and departure
  documentation, collecting appropriate fees, assigning docking locations--with
  sophisticated monitoring systems tracking vessel movements throughout
  Waverest's waters, coordinating pilot services for unfamiliar captains, and
  maintaining communication with similar facilities at West Staith.

- **The King Vadrik**: Inn and pub in the Regician style whose current landlady
  is the half-elf **Hilnis Astalos**. Named for a legendary Regician monarch,
  this establishment caters primarily to visitors and expatriates from the
  Isles, offering accommodation, meals, and social spaces that recreate the
  distinctive atmosphere of Regician hospitality. The building's timber-frame
  construction and decorative elements--heraldic shields, ceremonial weapons,
  portraits of historical figures--reflect traditional Regician architectural
  and aesthetic preferences, creating a cultural enclave within Waverest's more
  eclectic environment.

- **Molly's House**: Brothel catering to certain Regician proclivities ran by
  **Molly O'Noshea**, a shrewd businesswoman who maintains careful compliance
  with both Confederate regulations and Pareeshan ecclesiastical guidelines
  governing such establishments. The discreet exterior belies the luxurious
  accommodations within, where the staff provides specialized services
  particularly appealing to clients from the Regician Isles, whose homeland's
  restrictive social codes create demand for experiences unavailable at home.
  Despite its somewhat risqué reputation, the house maintains strict
  professional standards and contributes substantial tax revenue to municipal
  coffers.

- **Sibling Hall**: An outpost of the Path of the Abandoned in the Confederacy,
  a hostel-come-temple kept by **Tifune**, a human priest whose philosophical
  training in Käs brings authentic Käsi spiritual practices to interested
  Confederates. The facility combines simple lodging for travelers following the
  Path with meeting spaces for communal meditation, philosophical discourse, and
  mutual support in a culture where theistic traditions remain dominant. The
  architectural style deliberately avoids ostentation, featuring clean lines,
  natural materials, and flexible spaces that can be reconfigured for different
  community needs.

- **The Sub Tower**: An inverted tower that reaches into the ocean in which the
  wizard **Avro'oss** resides. This architectural marvel extends downward from
  the dock surface into the sea below, with underwater windows and observation
  chambers providing unprecedented views of marine environments. The eccentric
  mage conducts research on oceanic magical phenomena, marine life
  communication, and experimental enchantments harnessing tidal energies. While
  primarily a private residence and research facility, the tower occasionally
  opens certain levels to visitors during specific astronomical alignments when
  magical energies peak.

### WEST STAITH

This long pier is the quickest route to Bay-Tsao and Skün, and as such hosts
many immigrants and ships from the two countries, the former even boasting a
floating mini-district that juts off from the main staith.

With less traffic than the East Staith, this is possibly the quietest district
of Waverest above ground, with the sound of the Ostris Ocean loudest here. The
smell of Bay-Tsaon cuisine blends enticingly with the salt of the water below,
and many paper lanterns and dragon motifs can be seen up and down the staith.
The Skünish presence is most felt at the very end of the staith, which is mostly
populated by people from the southern continent.

#### NOTABLE LOCATIONS

- **Harbourmaster's Lodge**: The office of **Zachary Skipper**, who oversees all
  the traffic in and out of the West Staith. Unlike his East Staith counterpart,
  Skipper maintains a more relaxed operational style appropriate to the somewhat
  lower volume and different character of maritime traffic on this side, though
  his knowledge of international shipping regulations--particularly regarding
  the complex protocols governing rare Bay-Tsaon vessels and the specialized
  requirements of Skünish cold-water ships--is unmatched in the Confederacy.

- **The Kraken's Maw**: Inn run by Skünish human called **Ingmar Fjornar**,
  whose establishment recreates the distinctive atmosphere of Åknorg's legendary
  hospitality facilities. The building's thick stone walls and relatively small
  windows reflect Skünish architectural preferences designed for heat retention,
  while the interior features extensive dwarf-crafted stonework, traditional
  furnishings imported directly from Skün, and a renowned brewing operation
  producing authentic southern-style ales unavailable elsewhere in Waverest.

- **Jiangstock Jetty**: A Bay-Tsaon neighbourhood bustling with business
  covering a pier that extends a quarter of a mile off from the staith. This
  remarkable floating district represents one of the few places outside Bay-Tsao
  itself where authentic imperial cultural practices and commercial traditions
  can be observed. The distinctive architecture--featuring upturned roofs, red
  lacquered supports, and intricate decorative elements--creates a visual
  spectacle extending into the harbor, while careful security measures maintain
  the segregation from mainstream Confederate society that imperial authorities
  require for sanctioned overseas communities.

- **St. Marions**: Temple to Niuthün & hospital, administered by **Sister
  Angela**, a rotund middle aged human woman whose healing abilities combine
  traditional medical knowledge with divinely granted restoration powers. The
  facility integrates maritime medicine specialties addressing conditions unique
  to seafaring populations--from exotic disease treatment to specialized trauma
  care for injuries sustained aboard ships--with general healthcare services
  available to all Waverest residents regardless of ability to pay, fulfilling
  both practical needs and Niuthün's theological emphasis on universal
  compassion.

- **Port in a Storm**: Brothel run by **Corrine Quatermas**, catering primarily
  to the maritime community with services balancing recreation, comfort, and
  discretion appropriate to Waverest's diverse international clientele. The
  establishment maintains proper registration with both municipal authorities
  and Pareeshan ecclesiastical organizations, ensuring ethical treatment of
  workers and appropriate taxation of proceeds, while its elegant but
  understated exterior reflects the operational philosophy emphasizing quality
  service rather than ostentatious advertisement.

- **St. Queria's**: Temple to Shæroom which is overseen by **Shrewdness**, a
  female tiefling whose unusual heritage hasn't prevented her from becoming one
  of Waverest's most respected religious leaders. The facility occupies a
  partially submerged structure extending into the harbor, allowing direct
  connection with the oceanic domain of the temple's divine patron. Rituals
  conducted here range from standard maritime blessings for departing vessels to
  more elaborate ceremonies for those embarking on particularly hazardous
  voyages, while the temple's distinctive conch-shell warning system provides
  early alert for approaching storms.

- **The Weeping Mermaid**: Pub offering many imported ales run by
  **Thaxonaxsys**, a copper dragonborn whose remarkable collection of beverages
  from across Qor'thos makes this establishment a destination for connoisseurs
  and casual drinkers alike. The multilevel structure features different
  environments on each floor--from the boisterous ground-level taproom to
  quieter upper chambers for private conversations--while the distinctive carved
  mermaid figurehead salvaged from a legendary shipwreck watches over
  proceedings from behind the main bar, her perpetually wet eyes said to be
  magical warning of imminent maritime disasters.

### THE QUAYS

In between the east and west staiths lies a complex web of jetties, gangplanks,
wharfs and piers known by the locals as the Quays. Buildings overlap, extending
across the walkways below forming the majority of residences in Wharfton. A
multitude of shops, stalls, markets and restaurants line the wharves making this
a commercial centre.

Wooden buildings and shacks overlap each other, with some smaller businesses
being canopy and netting affairs, rigged to the beams that criss cross the wharf
below. The pier thrums with the sound of traders, customers, thieves and guards
trying to navigate the maze, reducing the sound of the sea to a mere rumble
emanating from below. A strong salty aroma fuses with urban perfumes and the
funk of port city life.

#### NOTABLE LOCATIONS

- **Flotsam & Jetsam**: Rare finds and artefacts traded by the elf **Quinlys
  Xiloscient**, whose encyclopedic knowledge of historical items recovered from
  shipwrecks has established him as the Confederacy's foremost expert on
  maritime antiquities. The shop occupies a former ship captain's residence
  whose original architecture has been preserved while interior spaces have been
  converted to display cases, examination rooms, and climate-controlled storage
  for particularly delicate items. Beyond straightforward commercial
  transactions, the establishment provides authentication services for
  potentially significant historical artifacts and occasionally facilitates
  acquisition of important items for Confederate museums.

- **St. Helena's, Temple of Pareesha**: Temple and central brothel, to which
  tithes from the city's other houses of negotiable affection come. Run by
  Mistress **Oriza**, a half-elf priestess whose diplomatic skills balance the
  sometimes competing interests of religious obligation, commercial operation,
  worker welfare, and public health considerations. The facility combines sacred
  spaces devoted to Pareesha's veneration with carefully regulated areas for the
  physical expression of devotion, professional administration offices managing
  the broader network of affiliated establishments, and educational resources
  promoting both spiritual understanding and practical safety measures.

- **The Nippy Quipper**: A pot shop catering to the economically disadvantaged
  currently run by **Sandra Shoreguard**, a middle aged human whose commitment
  to providing affordable sustenance has made this establishment an essential
  community resource. The simple menu offers hearty stews, soups, and porridges
  at minimal cost, while the "suspended meal" program allows more affluent
  customers to pre-purchase food for those unable to pay. Beyond its nutritional
  contributions, the shop serves as informal community center where dockworkers,
  sailors, and other working-class Wharfton residents exchange information, seek
  informal assistance, and maintain social connections.

- **The Main Sale**: A long central wharf spilling with stalls and berths where
  nearly everything and everything under the sun can be bought and sold. This
  sprawling marketplace represents the commercial heart of the Quays, with
  vendors arranged according to traditional categories--foodstuffs, textiles,
  manufactured goods, maritime supplies--while allowing for the chaotic energy
  that characterizes Wharfton commerce. Unlike the more structured markets in
  other districts, the Main Sale embraces spontaneity and improvisation, with
  stall locations shifting according to tides, weather conditions, and sometimes
  merchants' superstitions regarding lucky positions.

- **Pearls from the Depths**: Smithy & forge operated by **Corus Halorvuax** a
  male triton whose unique perspective combines traditional surface-world
  metallurgical techniques with aquatic crafting traditions unknown to most
  land-dwelling smiths. The workshop specializes in items for maritime use--from
  practical ship components to decorative objects incorporating salvaged
  materials from the ocean floor--while its distinctive architectural design
  allows portions of the space to be intentionally flooded for working on
  specialized underwater technologies.

- **Shrine to Talia**: This modest yet beautiful sanctuary dedicated to the Lady
  of Laughter serves as spiritual center for entertainers, musicians,
  storytellers, and others who bring joy through creative expression. The
  structure incorporates acoustic elements that enhance musical performances and
  storytelling sessions regularly hosted within its walls, while the distinctive
  stained glass windows depict Talia's mythological exploits with unusually
  dynamic imagery that seems to shift subtly depending on viewing angle and
  light conditions.

- **The Wandering Tentacle**: Lively pub slap bang in the middle of the jetty,
  managed by **Shautha** a half-orc whose formidable physical presence maintains
  order while her surprising culinary expertise produces some of Wharfton's most
  interesting fusion cuisine. The multilevel establishment built partly on
  pilings and partly into an abandoned ship's hull creates distinct environments
  across different areas--from rowdy public spaces featuring regular musical
  performances to quieter nooks for private conversations--while the celebrated
  kitchen combines ingredients and techniques from across Qor'thos in creative
  combinations that attract customers from throughout Waverest.

## ROCKTON

### Overview

By tunneling deep into the cliff and below, the Lord Admiral's men and a
contingent of dwarves exiled from Skün managed to double the area of Waverest
when it experienced its first population boom a few hundred years ago. The
majority of inhabitants are dwarves, with a minority of gnomes, humans and even
myconids living beneath the earth together, trading and working under the glow
of luminescent fungi.

Unlike the wooden constructions of Wharfton below or the open skies of Talton
above, Rockton represents a masterpiece of subterranean engineering and
adaptation. The settlement extends horizontally into the cliff face and
vertically through multiple levels, creating a three-dimensional environment
where artificial tunnels connect and enhance natural cave systems. This complex
network transforms what could have been merely functional excavations into a
vibrant urban landscape with distinct neighborhoods, commercial districts, and
civic spaces, all illuminated by the carefully cultivated bioluminescent fungi
that have become one of Rockton's most distinctive features.

The atmosphere differs dramatically from Waverest's other districts. The air
carries the mingled scents of stone dust, forge fires, brewing ale, and the
earthy aroma of the fungi that provide both light and important nutritional
components in the local diet. The soundscape blends the rhythmic hammering from
numerous smithies, the low hum of conversations in dwarven and other languages,
the occasional drip of water from natural ceiling formations, and the
distinctive resonant qualities that large stone chambers impart to all noises.
Temperature remains remarkably consistent regardless of surface weather, with
geothermal features providing natural heating that keeps the settlement
comfortable even during winter months.

The architecture demonstrates classic dwarven principles adapted to local
conditions and the mixed population's needs. Load-bearing pillars incorporate
both functional support and decorative elements, with geometric patterns and
historical scenes carved directly into structural components. Ceiling heights
vary to accommodate different species, with major thoroughfares and public
spaces designed for comfortable use by all residents while certain specialized
areas maintain dimensions optimized for particular users. Water management
systems—channels, reservoirs, pumps, filtration mechanisms—represent some of the
settlement's most impressive engineering achievements, ensuring consistent
supply for drinking, manufacturing, and waste removal despite the challenges of
subterranean hydrology.

### THE CHONDRONITE BAZAAR

The shopping plaza and central district of Rockton where many merchants,
lawyers, artisans and others ply their trades in the glow of the luminescent
fungi that hang off the roof of the cavern above. There are buildings made of
the excess stone quarried when the Bazaar was constructed and others have been
carved out of the rock itself up and down, giving the district many tunneling
offshoots that connect to different streets and chambers.

With major roads leading to the surface the air in the Bazaar is the freshest in
Rockton, the earthy smell of the fungus lighting the district mixing with the
salt breeze of the Wave Road and the country air of the Under Road.

#### NOTABLE LOCATIONS

- **Bofheim's**: Jeweller, gem cutter and stone merchant owned by **Fonjar**, a
  dwarf whose family has practiced these crafts for seven generations,
  developing specialized techniques for working with the unique mineral
  compositions found in the Waverest cliffs. The shop combines retail display
  areas showcasing finished products with workshop spaces where customers can
  observe craftspeople at work, creating transparency that builds trust in the
  quality of their merchandise while educating visitors about traditional
  dwarven craftsmanship.

- **The Glowing Mushroom**: Inn illuminated by its namesake which dominates the
  central chamber, currently run by **Hilda Sturmvark**, a dwarf innkeeper whose
  knowledge of fungal cultivation rivals that of dedicated mycologists. This
  establishment serves as both accommodation for visitors to Rockton and
  important community gathering space where residents from different
  neighborhoods come together for meals, entertainment, and social connection.
  The central feature—an enormous bioluminescent mushroom cultivated over
  decades to reach its current impressive size—provides both practical
  illumination and conversation-starting spectacle.

- **Gochsbarg & Rungehyr Waverest**: Branch of the law firm found across the
  Confederacy, this office specializes in maritime law, mining rights, and the
  complex jurisdictional questions that arise from Waverest's unique
  three-dimensional governance structure. The impressive stone chambers housing
  the practice feature acoustically engineered consultation rooms ensuring
  client confidentiality, extensive archives of previous cases and contracts,
  and formal meeting spaces designed to project the firm's signature combination
  of traditional respectability and practical effectiveness.

- **Elixirs Extravaganza**: Potion shop run by the alchemist vampire half-elf
  **Jackson Sinjin**, whose unusually long lifespan has allowed him to compile
  an extraordinary collection of rare recipes and ingredients unavailable
  elsewhere in the Confederacy. The shop's architecture incorporates specialized
  ventilation systems managing potentially harmful fumes, temperature-controlled
  storage areas preserving delicate components, and demonstration spaces where
  customers can observe the effects of various preparations before purchase.
  Despite initial suspicion regarding Sinjin's unusual heritage, his exceptional
  products and strict ethical standards have earned acceptance from even the
  most conservative Rockton residents.

- **Lutgehyr's Smithy**: Forge owned by **Rurik**, a dwarf whose metallurgical
  innovations have created new alloys particularly suited to maritime
  applications, making this establishment a crucial supplier for Wharfton's
  shipbuilding and repair operations. The forge complex includes multiple
  specialized working areas—primary smelting chambers, precision finishing
  stations, enchantment facilities for magical enhancement of particularly
  important items—all arranged to optimize both production efficiency and worker
  safety, with sophisticated ventilation systems managing heat and fumes.

- **The Treasure Trove**: Artefact and magic goods shop run by **Anberra
  Glanhig**, a gnome whose diminutive size belies her extraordinary knowledge of
  magical item identification, valuation, and restoration. The deceptively small
  entrance opens into an extensive chamber whose architectural features include
  containment systems for potentially volatile magical objects, specialized
  display cases maintaining appropriate conditions for items with unusual
  requirements, and sophisticated security measures protecting particularly
  valuable merchandise while allowing legitimate customers comfortable browsing
  experiences.

- **The Under Road**: A tunnel that corkscrews up to the Confederate Road out of
  Waverest, this crucial transportation artery connects Rockton directly to
  mainland trade routes without requiring passage through either Wharfton or
  Talton. The engineering achievement represents one of Waverest's most
  impressive infrastructure projects, with precisely calculated gradients
  allowing efficient wagon traffic, reinforced construction supporting the
  weight of fully loaded commercial vehicles, and sophisticated ventilation
  systems maintaining air quality despite heavy usage.

- **Untgar's Horde**: General good shop owned by **Eberk**, a dwarf merchant
  whose establishment offers practical necessities for subterranean living
  alongside luxury items appealing to Rockton's more affluent residents. The
  shop occupies a former natural cavern enhanced through careful excavation,
  with merchandise displayed on multiple levels connected by ramps and stairways
  that transform shopping into something of an adventure, encouraging
  exploration and discovery while the organized chaos of the inventory system
  somehow allows staff to locate specific items with remarkable efficiency.

- **The Wave Road**: Large tunnel that slopes gently out to Cliffside, providing
  Rockton's primary connection to Wharfton and consequently to maritime commerce
  beyond. The tunnel's impressive dimensions accommodate substantial cargo
  volume and significant foot traffic, while its construction demonstrates
  sophisticated engineering addressing the challenges of connecting disparate
  environments—managing moisture differences, preventing structural problems
  from salt exposure, accommodating elevation changes—while maintaining
  comfortable passage for diverse users.

- **The Whetted Axe**: Tavern in a cavern ran by **Nora Durthane**, a dwarf
  whose establishment serves as Rockton's primary entertainment venue and
  informal community center. The multilevel space incorporates performance areas
  where musicians and storytellers regularly appear, gaming sections offering
  traditional dwarven contests of skill and chance, and numerous alcoves
  providing settings for both intimate conversations and larger group
  gatherings. The distinctive acoustic properties of the cavern—carefully
  preserved during renovation—create sound environments ideally suited to
  different activities in various sections of the establishment.

### THE HALLS OF RESIDENCE

The main residential district of Rockton, encompassing a large cavern around
which are tunnels running off into the various neighbourhoods of dwarf style
hives of rooms, stacked below each other reaching ever deeper into the earth,
with each designated to different clans.

#### NOTABLE LOCATIONS

- **Alderman's Chambers**: Political centre of Rockton and residence of Alderman
  **Briffin Darkale**, a dwarf whose leadership balances traditional dwarven
  governance principles with the practical requirements of administering a
  multi-species community integrated into Waverest's complex political
  structure. The chambers combine administrative offices processing the
  district's day-to-day governance requirements, formal meeting spaces for both
  public assemblies and private council sessions, and residential quarters
  maintaining the dwarven tradition of leadership literally residing within the
  community they serve.

- **Shrine to Jadow**: This sacred space dedicated to the Lord of Earth
  represents one of Rockton's most important religious sites, particularly for
  residents whose spiritual practices focus on connection with the subterranean
  environment rather than the distant heavens emphasized in many surface faiths.
  The shrine incorporates natural geological features believed to channel
  Jadow's essence directly from the world's depths, while ceremonial spaces
  accommodate both individual devotional practices and larger community rituals
  celebrating the enduring stability the deity represents.

- **St. Thorin's, Our Father of the Forge, Temple of Moradin**: Temple to the
  dwarf deity and communal forge administered by Father **Njorvard Orcsbane**, a
  dwarf priest whose battlefield experience during earlier conflicts has shaped
  his practical approach to religious leadership. The facility integrates sacred
  spaces devoted to Moradin's veneration with working forges where devotees
  express their faith through craftsmanship rather than merely ritual
  observance. The temple serves as both religious center and educational
  facility, with apprenticeship programs teaching traditional metallurgical
  techniques alongside spiritual principles.

- **The Underpark**: A large cavern filled with a phantasmagoric array of fungi
  playing the roles of the fauna found in an abovelight park. A colony of
  **Myconids**, whose ancestors grew the Underpark in collaboration with the
  city, act as wardens. This extraordinary green space (though "green" hardly
  captures the rainbow of colors displayed by the various fungi species)
  provides essential recreational opportunities for Rockton residents, with
  carefully maintained paths winding through diverse fungal ecosystems,
  meditation alcoves offering quiet retreat from urban pressures, and communal
  gathering areas hosting seasonal celebrations and cultural events.

### SKÜNISH TOWN

The oldest part of Rockton, Skünish Town is a large cavern hugging the ocean,
the rhythmic beat of waves crashing into the rock walls of the district serving
as a constant reminder, It is the first area of the cliff face to be excavated
by the Skünish contractors, and as such reflects the architectural styles common
to the far southern continent; bold geometric lines; simple motifs carved into
the rock; stone panels locked together forming larger buildings; structures
carved into the rock of the cavern and such.

#### NOTABLE LOCATIONS

- **The Argument Pit**: An arena where people come to prove themselves in the
  ancient Skünish art of Kinesthetic Arguing. It is maintained by **Vagnis
  Skolnyr**, a female dwarf cleric/monk whose deep understanding of both
  combative traditions and conflict resolution principles makes her the perfect
  overseer for this unique cultural institution. The circular arena features
  tiered seating providing excellent viewing angles for spectators, specialized
  flooring materials offering appropriate traction without causing unnecessary
  injury to participants, and acoustic engineering that allows audience members
  to clearly hear the verbal components of these physical-philosophical
  contests.

- **Berronar's Respite**: Inn and Tavern operated by **Thormund Lindsvagen**, an
  elderly dwarf gentleman whose establishment serves as primary social center
  for Rockton's Skünish community. The décor faithfully recreates traditional
  southern continental styles, with furnishings imported directly from Skün,
  menu offerings featuring authentic recipes using locally available
  ingredients, and regular cultural events maintaining connections with
  ancestral traditions despite the considerable distance from the homeland.

- **The Clanhalls**: A residential district divided between the major and oldest
  clans of the Skünish dwarves that carved out the rock of Waverest. Each clan
  maintains its own distinctive living spaces reflecting their particular
  historical specializations, aesthetic preferences, and social organization,
  while shared corridors and communal facilities promote inter-clan cooperation
  essential to successful community function in the subterranean environment.

- **St. Ingmar's, our Lord of the Battle, Temple of Rælion**: Cultural centre
  for the Skünish community of Waverest, with worship of Rælion strong on the
  continent. The current High Priest is the dwarf **Kurtnar Akerson**, whose
  martial training complements his theological expertise in keeping with
  Rælion's dual emphasis on disciplined combat and principled leadership. The
  temple complex includes training facilities where physical disciplines
  integrate with spiritual development, memorial spaces honoring fallen
  warriors, and ceremonial areas where community members receive blessings
  before undertaking dangerous enterprises.

- **Jurgen's**: General Goods store ran by the eponymous human **Jurgen
  Vronmayer**, whose establishment serves as both commercial enterprise and
  cultural crossroads where Skünish traditions interact with broader Confederate
  society. The shop stocks specialized equipment designed for subterranean
  living alongside luxury goods imported from across the Confederacy, while
  Vronmayer's unusual status as a human merchant in a predominantly dwarven
  district has positioned him as informal cultural interpreter for visitors
  unfamiliar with Skünish customs.

- **The Underdock**: Small harbour specialising in Skünish style submersible
  vessels, maintained by Sub-Harbour Mistress **Ünra Joldgard**, a female dwarf
  fighter whose expertise in underwater navigation and vehicle operation
  reflects traditional skills developed in Skün's distinctive maritime
  environment. The facility includes specialized docking mechanisms
  accommodating the unique requirements of submersible craft, maintenance
  workshops ensuring these complex vehicles remain in optimal operating
  condition, and training facilities where operators learn the specialized
  skills required for safe underwater travel.

## TALTON

### Overview

The youngest of the three towns, Talton is home to a halfling majority, most of
whom trace their ancestry back to the original Chondothi tribes that migrated
south from the Plains during the war with Zilrikax. While some of the district
reflects their nomadic beginnings, the town displays wealth and grandeur on the
upper west side contrasted with poverty and humility on the lower east side.

Unlike Wharfton's maritime orientation or Rockton's subterranean character,
Talton represents Waverest's connection to inland Confederate territories and
agricultural production. The district spreads across the cliff top in a pattern
that balances the permanent infrastructure required by an established urban
center with design elements reflecting the nomadic heritage of its Chondothi
founders. This distinctive architectural approach creates neighborhoods with
clearly defined physical boundaries but significant internal flexibility,
allowing buildings and public spaces to be reconfigured as community needs
evolve without altering the district's basic organizational structure.

The atmosphere contrasts dramatically with Waverest's other districts. The air
carries the mingled scents of cultivated fields surrounding the urban center,
cooking fires preparing distinctive Chondothi cuisine, livestock maintained
within certain neighborhoods, and occasionally the maritime aromas rising from
lower levels when wind conditions align. The soundscape blends conversations in
multiple dialects (with Chondothi variants predominating), music performed on
traditional instruments during frequent community gatherings, livestock sounds
from urban pastoral areas, and the distant rumble of wagons along the
Confederate Road connecting Waverest to inland trading partners.

The open sky above Talton creates both practical and psychological differences
from the city's other districts. Day/night cycles and weather conditions
directly impact daily life, requiring architectural adaptations like retractable
awnings protecting market areas during rain, public lighting systems
compensating for darkness unmitigated by Rockton's perpetual fungal
illumination, and seasonal activity patterns shifting with changing daylight
hours. This connection with natural cycles creates a cultural rhythm distinct
from the more artificially regulated environments of Wharfton and Rockton,
influencing everything from commercial activities to social gatherings.

### BAEN CHONDOTH

The oldest area of Talton, Baen Chondoth resembles a permanent circus: there are
many large tents, yurts, tipis and other such domiciles that hearken to the way
the Chondothi halflings traditionally lived on the Plains. As such it is a
concentration of Chondothi culture, but with the Confederate Road running
through it to the north it also serves as the gateway to the Confederacy for
many who have made the journey by sea or sky passing through Waverest.

A jumble of huts, yurts, wooden houses and brick buildings radiate from the town
hexagon, the central meeting place and crossroads of the town. Carts, livestock
merchants and miscreants rattle off a barrage of sounds that reflect off the
various canopies around town, making strange echoes in some corners. The ocean
breeze is drowned out by the scent of chondothi spices and the smoke of sheesha
wafting through the district.

#### NOTABLE LOCATIONS

- **Alderman's Yurt**: Residence and office of the current Alderman of Talton,
  the halfling **Estrin Willowgate**, whose leadership balances traditional
  Chondothi governance practices with Confederate administrative requirements.
  The structure combines practical governmental functions with symbolic
  representation of cultural continuity, its circular design creating
  distinctive meeting spaces where hierarchical distinctions are minimized
  during community deliberations, while still maintaining appropriate ceremonial
  elements for official functions.

- **St. Bambers**: Temple to Orthalius and library, **Alathea Damrion** is the
  current First Reader. The facility integrates sacred spaces devoted to the
  Father of Magic with extensive knowledge repositories, creating a center for
  both spiritual development and practical education. Architectural elements
  balance traditional Chondothi design influences with features optimized for
  library functions, while the curriculum combines conventional Confederate
  scholarship with preservation of distinctive Chondothi oral traditions and
  historical knowledge.

- **Berrybottom's Mercantile**: General goods shop ran by the eponymous elderly
  halfling **Reginald**, whose establishment serves as both commercial
  enterprise and community institution where Talton residents gather to exchange
  news and maintain social connections while conducting practical business. The
  shop stocks essential supplies supporting both urban living and agricultural
  activities in surrounding areas, while Berrybottom's remarkable memory allows
  him to track customer preferences and anticipate community needs with uncanny
  accuracy.

- **Confederate Outpost Talton**, administered by **Commander Sanger**, a human
  whose leadership style emphasizes integration with local governance systems
  rather than imposition of external authority. The facility combines standard
  Confederate Guard functions—security operations, legal enforcement,
  administrative services—with specialized elements addressing Talton's unique
  characteristics, including liaison personnel specifically trained in Chondothi
  cultural traditions and legal interfaces managing the complex jurisdictional
  relationships between Talton and Waverest's other districts.

- **Paternoster Entrance**: 2p to ride it down to Wharfton, Rockton, or do the
  whole circuit and end up where you started. Operated by **Birtwyck** &
  **Orzak**, this remarkable transportation system represents one of Waverest's
  most impressive engineering achievements. The continuously circulating chain
  of passenger platforms connects all three districts with minimal waiting time,
  while the unique mechanical system efficiently manages the considerable
  elevation differences between levels using sophisticated counterweight
  mechanisms and safety features ensuring reliable operation despite the
  challenging environmental conditions.

- **A Slice of the Plains**: Chondothi style large tent holding a shisha bar and
  cafe-come-tavern. Overseen by **Mia Fernottle**, an elderly halfling woman
  whose establishment serves as cultural anchor for Talton's Chondothi
  community. The spacious interior recreates traditional Plains gathering
  environments with low seating arranged around communal fire pits, while the
  menu offers authentic recipes using ingredients imported directly from
  Chondothi settlements or cultivated locally according to traditional methods.
  Regular storytelling sessions and musical performances maintain cultural
  continuity while welcoming visitors interested in experiencing Chondothi
  traditions.

- **The Stumbling Scholar**: Pub just round the corner from St. Bamber's run by
  **Tobias Swabson**, catering primarily to the academic community associated
  with the temple library but welcoming all Talton residents. The
  establishment's proximity to St. Bamber's has shaped both its clientele and
  atmosphere, with quiet areas conducive to intellectual discussion alongside
  more conventional social spaces, while the extensive selection of reading
  materials available for customer use and regular book discussion events
  reflect its unique educational positioning within Talton's social landscape.

- **Yondalla Hearth**: Chondothi style mega-yurt temple to Yondalla, ran by a
  collective of devout halflings. This impressive structure serves as primary
  religious center for Talton's halfling community, honoring their traditional
  protective deity with both ceremonial observances and practical community
  support services. The circular design creates a spiritual space where
  worshippers gather around a perpetually maintained central hearth symbolizing
  Yondalla's nurturing presence, while peripheral areas house educational
  facilities teaching halfling traditions to younger generations and support
  services assisting community members in need.

### THE GREENBELT

Expanding beyond the limits of Talton is a vast sea of farmland either side of
the Confederate Road, which half way down opens up to join the Under Road out of
Rockton. Known as the Greenbelt, the city's abovelight produce is grown out
here. There are a few farming families who between them have monopolised the
area, and a small contingent of traders around the mouth of the Under Road.

What few buildings there are on the Greenbelt are clustered around the tunnel
opening, forming a small village. The Western side slopes up as a hill, dropping
off to the east giving the land an off kilter feel. The smell of grains and
flowers offers a welcome relief to the grime of the city proper.

#### NOTABLE LOCATIONS

- **Shrine to the Greenman**: A simple yet beautiful sacred space celebrating
  the fertility that sustains Waverest's agricultural production, this open-air
  sanctuary features carefully arranged stone elements incorporating water
  features, living plants, and ceremonial spaces where farming communities
  conduct seasonal rituals ensuring continued productivity. The shrine serves
  both spiritual and practical functions, with attached educational facilities
  teaching sustainable agricultural techniques alongside traditional religious
  observances.

- **Light at the End of the Tunnel**: Coach house & inn catering to those making
  the journey to and from Waverest and the rest of the Confederacy. The current
  landlord is the half-orc **Enoch Staithwalk**, whose establishment occupies a
  strategically important position at the junction between the Confederate Road
  and the Under Road leading to Rockton. The facility combines practical
  transportation services—stabling, vehicle maintenance, passenger
  accommodation—with important social functions as gathering place where
  travelers exchange information and locals connect with wider Confederate
  developments.

- **Narrowglade Farm**: Halfing farm growing gythras, one of the leading brands
  across the Confederacy. It is run by **Silas**, a halfling agricultural
  innovator whose family has developed specialized cultivation techniques
  maximizing production of this valuable crop despite limited available land.
  The farm combines traditional Chondothi agricultural practices with innovative
  approaches addressing the specific challenges of cliff-top farming, creating a
  model operation studied by agricultural specialists from across the
  Confederacy.

- **Oh So Tacky**: Tack shop & stables owned by half-elf farrier **Amelia
  Thurgood**, whose establishment provides essential services supporting both
  agricultural operations and transportation connections with inland Confederate
  territories. Beyond conventional equipment sales and animal care facilities,
  the business offers specialized training for handlers working with animals in
  Waverest's unique vertical environment, where standard transportation
  approaches must be adapted to the city's unusual topography.

- **Taffrey Farm**: Human family operation growing range of produce and
  livestock. Overseen by **Jemima**, this diversified agricultural enterprise
  supplies significant portions of Waverest's food requirements, with particular
  emphasis on crops and animal products difficult to import efficiently due to
  preservation challenges. The operation demonstrates sophisticated crop
  rotation and integrated pest management systems developed specifically for the
  coastal microclimate, creating sustainable production models increasingly
  adopted throughout the region.

- **Scythebright Farm**: Ran by a family of halflings who grow mainly cereals
  and grains, led by **Mingus**, whose operation represents one of Waverest's
  most important food security resources. The farm's extensive grain production
  supports both direct human consumption and livestock operations throughout the
  city, while their innovative storage facilities maintain emergency reserves
  protecting against potential supply disruptions. Their seed preservation
  program maintains genetic diversity essential for long-term agricultural
  sustainability, making this seemingly simple grain operation a sophisticated
  contributor to regional food security.

- **The Root of the Matter**: Locals only pub proud of its agricultural
  surrounds, ran by **Osian Barethed**, serving as social center for the farming
  communities that sustain Waverest's food production. The establishment's
  distinctive atmosphere combines elements of rural tavern traditions with
  subtle indicators of the considerable wealth generated by successful
  agricultural operations, creating an environment where farm workers and owners
  socialize as relative equals united by their connection to the land despite
  significant economic disparities.

### THE PROMENADE

The most affluent district of Talton, owing to the Skyport and its constant
stream of merchants and travellers bringing fresh money and goods into town. The
Promenade is home to many great shops, taverns and the large homes of the
wealthy merchants who essentially run the district through their Guildhall.

The architecture is a mix of masonry and wood of many storeys, with fairly wide
streets by Waverest standards. The salty breeze mingles with the musk of
commerce distinguishing the Promenade as the least reeking populated district.
The racket of Wharfton below is merely a murmur overshadowed by the sounds of
business; costermongers yelling out punnet prices; kids announcing the headlines
of the _Gazette_ as they wave copies of it at any who pass; carts (both horse
and the newfangled horseless kind) clattering down the avenues and alleyways
spreading out through the city and other such noise generated by people making
money and making merry.

#### NOTABLE LOCATIONS

- **The Clouded Sail**: An inn & tavern catering to the many merchants,
  skyfarers, travellers and locals passing through the Skyport. **Arnys
  Verunt**, a well built middle-aged human, is the landlord. This luxurious
  establishment combines comfortable accommodation for affluent visitors with
  elegant social spaces where significant business negotiations often occur
  informally alongside more conventional entertainment. The distinctive
  architecture features elements suggesting maritime themes while incorporating
  sophisticated comforts exceeding even Wharfton's finest establishments,
  creating an environment where wealthy travelers feel appropriately pampered.

- **The Cloud Top Trade Hall**: Filled with numerous stalls, mostly selling
  imported goods. This impressive commercial space specializes in merchandise
  arriving via the Skyport, offering exotic products from distant lands
  alongside luxury versions of more commonplace items. The vaulted ceiling
  creates a dramatic atmospheric effect while providing practical ventilation
  for the busy marketplace below, and the carefully designed layout guides
  customers through themed sections showcasing goods from different regions and
  cultures, transforming shopping into educational experience about the wider
  world beyond Confederate borders.

- **Shrine to Crassooñ**: This sacred space dedicated to the Lord of Storms
  serves Waverest's aerial transportation community, providing both spiritual
  support and practical weather forecasting services essential to safe skyship
  operations. The open-air sanctuary features meteorological instruments
  combining scientific measurement with traditional divinatory techniques, while
  the staff includes both conventional priests and specialized weather-readers
  whose predictions guide scheduling decisions for the adjacent Skyport.

- **Guildhall**: A modest though high-end indoor market where the merchants and
  traders of the Promenade sell their wares and from upstairs broker their deals
  with each other. This facility serves as both commercial center and political
  headquarters for Talton's merchant elite, with the upper floors housing
  administrative offices, meeting rooms, and social spaces where the district's
  economic policies are effectively determined through a combination of formal
  governance procedures and informal relationship networks among influential
  trading families.

- **Skorlun's Arcanecary**: Potions, explosions and magical knicknacks presided
  over by **Ellyjobell**, a gnome whose unconventional alchemical approaches
  produce uniquely effective results despite occasionally alarming side effects.
  The shop combines retail space selling relatively stable products with
  production facilities safely separated from customer areas by multiple
  containment systems designed to mitigate the consequences of experimental
  mishaps. Despite (or perhaps because of) its somewhat unpredictable
  reputation, the establishment attracts customers seeking magical solutions
  unavailable through more conventional suppliers.

- **The Skyfarer's Prerogative**: A brothel, whose current madame is an elven
  lady known as the **Moon Bride**. This exclusive establishment caters to
  affluent visitors and wealthy local merchants, offering sophisticated
  entertainment combining physical pleasures with intellectual stimulation and
  social connection appropriate to its high-end clientele. The facility
  maintains immaculate Pareeshan registration and religious affiliation,
  ensuring both legal compliance and ethical treatment of its workers, while its
  elegant exterior architecturally complementing surrounding businesses conceals
  the nature of services provided from casual observation.

- **The Waverest Skyport**: A dock for the chondothi skyships, this remarkable
  facility represents one of the Confederacy's most important aerial
  transportation hubs, connecting Waverest to distant locations unreachable by
  conventional maritime routes. The complex includes docking platforms for
  multiple vessels, passenger processing facilities, cargo handling
  infrastructure, and specialized maintenance operations supporting the unique
  requirements of aerial transportation. The distinctive architecture combines
  practical engineering addressing the considerable technical challenges of
  skyship operations with aesthetic elements reflecting both Chondothi heritage
  and Waverest's maritime traditions.

- **Tosscobble's Forge**: The smithy and shop of **Euphemia Tosscobble**,
  halfling blacksmith whose specialization in creating components for aerial
  vehicles has established her as essential contributor to Waverest's skyship
  operations. The facility combines conventional forging equipment with
  specialized testing apparatus ensuring finished products meet the
  extraordinary reliability requirements essential for aerial applications,
  while the attached retail space offers both practical equipment and decorative
  metalwork appealing to Promenade's affluent residents and visitors.

### THE WARRENS

The poorest district of Talton, the East warrens are a dense network of wooden
slums built one on top of the over and varying from halfling to human size. It
is often seen as the place where those who couldn't afford the wharfside or the
stone cold prices down below often find a bed. Many of the flats are rented out
by slumlords who charge by the night, forcing a large number to sleep in the
gennels that criss-cross the district.

The buildings are mostly halfling proportioned wooden terraces that overlap each
other forming narrow gennels that coalesce into a maze, though prominent roads
like Loaf St. are open to the air and sunlight. The smell of people packed
closely together runs strong through the gennels, piss and worse curdling with
each other in your nostrils.

#### NOTABLE LOCATIONS

- **The Blasted Heath**: Dive bar ran by **Anthony Carpenter**, serving as
  social center and informal mutual aid network for the Warren's impoverished
  residents. Despite its rough appearance and reputation, the establishment
  provides essential community support—from information exchange about
  employment opportunities to emergency assistance during personal
  crises—alongside basic refreshment at prices accessible to even the district's
  poorest inhabitants. The maintenance of minimal public order without
  Confederate Guard intervention represents one of Carpenter's most significant
  accomplishments in a neighborhood where official authority maintains limited
  presence.

- **The Catbush**: An out of place patch of greenery that is home to a glare of
  cats, minions of the **Ragman**, and also conceals an entrance to his tunnel
  network. This seemingly innocuous urban wildlife habitat serves as both
  headquarters and surveillance system for one of Waverest's most mysterious
  figures—a person or possibly organization whose extensive
  information-gathering activities make them simultaneously valued ally and
  potential threat to various city factions. The cats themselves serve multiple
  functions, from simple companionship for neighborhood residents to
  sophisticated message carriers and observational agents extending the Ragman's
  awareness throughout the district.

- **Frindrikson's Goods**: General goods shop run by **Tansy**, a young halfling
  woman whose establishment offers necessities at prices tailored to the
  Warren's economic realities. Beyond conventional retail functions, the shop
  serves as informal community center where residents exchange information, seek
  assistance with various challenges, and maintain social connections essential
  to survival in challenging circumstances. The flexible credit arrangements
  Tansy maintains with reliable customers provides crucial economic cushioning
  during difficult periods, while her connections with suppliers throughout
  Waverest occasionally bring surplus goods into the district at significantly
  reduced prices.

- **The Glass Dunes**: Dive bar and Orphans hideout, whose landlord cum fence is
  **Alasdair Vastplane**, a halfling rogue whose establishment serves multiple
  functions within the Warren's complex social ecosystem. The public areas
  provide basic refreshment and entertainment at affordable prices, while the
  restricted backrooms offer safe haven for homeless youths, marketplace for
  goods of questionable provenance, and neutral ground where various
  neighborhood factions can resolve disputes without involving outside
  authorities. Despite its semi-criminal reputation, the establishment maintains
  its own ethical code that helps stabilize the district through informal
  governance supplementing limited official presence.

- **The Hope & Ankheg**: Pub ran by **Jillian**, also home to Vasilyon
  Investigations, one of the rooms upstairs rented by **Daroth**. This seemingly
  ordinary establishment conceals a significant information-gathering operation
  connecting activities throughout Waverest's various districts, as private
  investigators maintain their base of operations above the public areas while
  gathering intelligence through casual conversations with patrons representing
  diverse backgrounds and occupations. The combination of legitimate business
  with investigative functions creates complex dynamics where social interaction
  and surveillance blur together in ways participants may not fully recognize.

- **Shrine to Heria**: This modest sacred space dedicated to the Lady of the
  Hunt serves the Warren's residents with both spiritual support and practical
  assistance navigating life's challenges through perspective emphasizing
  self-reliance within supportive community frameworks. The shrine's
  architecture incorporates natural elements—living plants, water features,
  stone arrangements—creating microcosm of wilderness within urban poverty,
  while its open design welcomes worshippers regardless of social status or
  personal history, making it one of the district's few spaces where residents
  interact as equals without hierarchical distinctions.

- **Throk's Cuts**: A butcher's and pasty shop in the orcish style. This
  unpretentious establishment provides affordable protein sources essential to
  residents' nutrition within the Warren's limited economic circumstances. The
  distinctive preparation methods reflecting traditional orcish culinary
  approaches create food products offering exceptional caloric value and
  preservation properties relative to cost, making this seemingly simple shop
  crucial contributor to community food security despite its modest appearance
  and limited menu options.

- **Tit for Tat**: A pawnshop ran by the crotchety dwarf **Bjorn Snugranok**,
  whose establishment serves as unofficial financial institution in a district
  with limited access to conventional banking services. Beyond straightforward
  collateral lending, the shop functions as emergency resource during personal
  financial crises, storage facility for valuables in a neighborhood with
  minimal security, and occasionally mediator in property disputes where
  official legal mechanisms prove inaccessible due to cost or bureaucratic
  complexity. Despite his intimidating demeanor, Snugranok's reputation for
  scrupulous fairness within clearly defined business parameters makes him one
  of the district's most respected, if not necessarily liked, figures.
